DUBAI: Celebrity-loved shoemaker Amina Muaddi had an early birthday celebration on Tuesday. The footwear designer, who is of Jordanian and Romanian descent but grew up in Italy, turns 36 on June 2. To mark the special occasion, Muaddi got together with some of her closest friends to celebrate. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The entrepreneur shared snippets of her pre-birthday bash on her Instagram Stories, which showed her enjoying an outdoor sunset dinner in Paris. In attendance was her partner, French comedian Fary Lopes, model Tina Kunakey, Lebanese designer Eli Mizrahi, GCDS designer Giuliano Calza, French-Algerian model Younes Bendjima and Moroccan-Italian model Malika El-Maslouhi, among others.   For the occasion, Muaddi cut a sleek figure in a black dress, a matching tailored blazer and a swipe of maroon lipstick. Although it wasn’t her official birthday, a handful of her stylish friends took to social media to celebrate the businesswoman. “HB to my forever ever bestie. Love you,” The Attico co-founder Giorgia Tordini captioned an Instagram post of the pair together.   Fashion blogger Pernille Teisbæk also took to her Instagram Stories to wish Muaddi a happy birthday. She shared a sweet black-and-white photo of the highly sought-after footwear designer, writing “Happy birthday boo. Love you.” Muaddi certainly has a lot to celebrate as she is at the helm of one of the most in-demand footwear labels in the industry. She launched her eponymous footwear line in August 2018, approximately one year after departing from her role as co-founder and creative director of luxury footwear label Oscar Tiye. The part-Jordanian creative also helped design the shoes for Rihanna’s Fenty collection. The collaboration was so successful that it received the Collaborator of the Year award at the 34th edition of the FN Achievement Awards in 2020. Also in 2020, Muaddi teamed up with rapper ASAP Rocky’s creative agency AWGE on four shoe styles that are a marriage of their personal tastes. The collection is Muaddi’s first-ever collaboration for her own brand. A year later, she went on to land a spot on Women’s Wear Daily and Footwear News’s 50 Most Powerful Women list.