JEDDAH: The King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (Ithra) and national carrier Saudia have launched an art design competition, with the winning entry to adorn one of Saudia’s aircraft. The competition is part of Ithra and Saudia's efforts to support local art talent and provide global platforms for people to show off their creativity and skill. The competition runs from June 6 until July 23. Ithra said the winner would be announced in August. Entrants are encouraged to draw inspiration from the center’s slogan “Inspire Your World” when creating their designs. A jury panel of Saudi experts and creatives will assess all the submitted works. The competition judging committee comprises Ammar Alabdali, the general manager of the airline’s branding department, renowned Saudi artist Luluwah Al-Homoud, whose works have been included in international exhibitions, Haya Saad Al-Yahya, a graphic design and multimedia lecturer at Imam Abdulrahman bin Faisal University, Suliman Al-Fulaij, partner and CEO of Shift marketing agency, and Meaad Al-Khathlan, a representative from the branding division at Ithra. Yousef Al-Mutairi, head of Ithra’s communication and partnerships division, said the center was excited to team up with Saudia as part of the two sides’ long-term cooperation to provide dynamic collaboration initiatives in the Kingdom. “This exciting competition presents the abundant talent pool we have here in the Kingdom, with a creative opportunity to make their mark. Ithra is committed to advancing the Kingdom’s creative sector and nurturing its talent by providing impact-driven opportunities showcasing the imagination, innovation, and creativity of these talented individuals across global platforms,” Al-Mutairi said. Every year, Ithra launches open calls for submissions by Saudi and Saudi-based artists as well as by artists from the Arab world. It is the driving force behind several key programs supporting the country’s creative community, while Saudia also participates in national and cultural events. During key moments, including Saudi National Day and the G20 Summit, it proudly displayed relevant artwork across its fleet. Saudia’s group chief marketing officer Khaled bin Abdulgader Tash said the airline was thrilled to be part of the competition. “We always support such events and occasions all over the Kingdom, and we are often the first to provide support for creative events such as this one. Our aircraft are the ideal billboards for displaying Saudi creativity to the world,” Tash said. Ithra and Saudia signed a memorandum of understanding last September at the Prince Sultan Aviation Academy in Jeddah. It included cooperation and strategic agreements, such as displaying Ithra’s logo on a Saudia plane.