RIYADH: Theeba Motorsport has confirmed that it will take part in the 2022 Goodwood Festival of Speed in the UK with founder and Saudi Arabia’s first female racing driver, Reema Juffali. Driving the team’s state-of-the-art Mercedes-AMG GT3 EVO, Juffali will complete a total of six exhibition runs on Goodwood’s iconic hill-climb circuit. Performing two exhibition runs per day, the 30-year-old racer will join multiple figures from international competition including Formula One world champions Jackie Stewart, Mika Hakkinen, and Jenson Button, and nine-time Le Mans 24-hour winner Tom Kristensen. The Goodwood Festival of Speed was first held in 1993 and in this year’s 29th edition will celebrate the Masterminds of Motorsport from June 23 to 26. With more than 600 cars and motorcycles from the automotive and motorsport industries, the event is the world’s biggest celebration of motor racing and car culture. Jeddah-born Juffali said: “The Goodwood Festival of Speed has always been one of my favorite events of the year. It is also where I first set my eyes on some of the greatest machines ever built. “Goodwood celebrates progress and embodies what we stand for as a team by creating opportunities and making motor racing more accessible. It only makes sense to introduce people to Theeba Motorsport in the UK at Goodwood in June.” As Saudi Arabia’s first female racing driver, Juffali has moved from strength to strength in her career and founded Theeba Motorsport earlier this year. Competing in the International GT Open, the team aims to improve Saudi access, participation, and representation in motor racing through a variety of educational opportunities including internship and apprenticeship programs. It is the team’s ambition to one day make history by becoming the first Saudi team to contest the prestigious 24 Hours of Le Mans. Theeba Motorsport tasted success on debut and secured pole position and a class victory in May’s International GT Open event at the Circuit Paul Ricard, in France.