DUBAI: US Palestinian Dutch supermodel Gigi Hadid was on hand to celebrate legendary modelling agent Luiz Mattos’s birthday in New York this week — and for the occasion, she showed off a vibrant look by London-based label Miss Sohee. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Dressed by stylist to the stars Mimi Cuttrell, who regularly works with US singers Ariana Grande and Normani, the ensemble hailed from Miss Sohee’s Fall/Winter 2022 ready-to-wear collection. Briony Raymond jewelry, in the form of a pearl choker, completed the dramatic look that consisted of a sharp pink bodice over a red pencil skirt with embroidered details on the hem. A post shared by Check the Tag (@checkthetag) The Council of Fashion Designers of America describes Mattos as an “an industry mainstay for over two decades (who) played a pivotal role in shaping the careers of some of today’s most successful models — Gigi Hadid, Bella Hadid, and Devon Windsor among them,” so it is no wonder that the Hadid sisters celebrated his birthday at the Boom Boom Room in New York’s Standard Hotel on Sunday. “I turn 50 (years old) today,” Mattos said in a post on Instagram. “What a blessing to celebrate life with all my friends and family. Someone once told me that happiness cannot be traveled to, owned, earned, worn or consumed. Happiness is the spiritual experience of living every minute with love, grace and gratitude.” For her part, Hadid spent the weekend celebrating the other important men in her life, including her father, Mohamed Hadid, and the father of her child, British singer Zayn Malik. “Happy Father's Day to my sweet baba,” the 27- year-old model wrote on Instagram Stories, before adding “and to Khai’s baba!!!” Although it is not clear whether Hadid and Malik are a couple, following his alleged altercation with Gigi’s mother last year and a public split, the pair continue to co-parent their 21-month-old daughter Khai. The former One Direction star, who has kept notoriously private about his life as a father, revealed what Khai is like and how she changed him in an interview with iHeartRadio's Valentine in the Morning in 2021. “Honestly, it's amazing,” Malik stated of fatherhood. “A lot of people that I was speaking to, obviously, before she was born and stuff were like, ‘it’s a big adjustment and it’s going to be a massive change and stuff.’ But honestly, she’s an amazing baby. It’s been really easy for me and Gigi to kind of just ease into it,” he added.