MANCHESTER: Manchester City have officially confirmed that Erling Haaland will join the club from Borussia Dortmund. The 21-year-old will join the Club on July 1 for a fee of almost $63 million after signing a five-year deal that keeps him at the Etihad Stadium until the summer of 2027. The son of former City captain Alfie, Haaland junior is widely regarded as one of Europe’s best strikers and arrives at the club with a formidable goalscoring reputation after impressive spells at Molde FK, Red Bull Salzburg, and Dortmund. A 21-cap Norwegian international, Haaland scored 86 goals in 89 games in two-and-a-half seasons with the Black and Yellows, winning the German Cup and the Bundesliga Player of the Season award in 2020-21. Haaland said: “This is a proud day for me and my family. I have always watched City and have loved doing so in recent seasons. You can’t help but admire their style of play; it’s exciting and they create a lot of chances, which is perfect for a player like me. “There are so many world-class players in this squad and Pep is one of the greatest managers of all time, so I believe I am in the right place to fulfil my ambitions. “I want to score goals, win trophies and improve as a footballer, and I am confident I can do that here. This is a great move for me, and I can’t wait to get started in pre-season.” Txiki Begiristain, director of football at Manchester City, said: “We have been monitoring Erling for several years now, so we are delighted to bring him here to Manchester City. “He is a huge talent and has been one of the best strikers in Europe over the last few seasons. His goalscoring record is exceptional and his performances at Borussia Dortmund and in the Champions League in particular have proved he can succeed at the highest level. “Erling has everything we want in a striker, and we are certain he will excel in this squad and this system. “His rise has been remarkable, but he is still only 21. His best years are ahead of him, and we are confident he can get even better working with Pep. “This is a very exciting signing for our club, and I am sure our fans will enjoy watching Erling perform in this team.”