KUALA LUMPUR: A new international fund backed by wealthy nations aims to invest at least $500 million in protecting nature in developing countries and giving indigenous people a bigger role in conserving their environment and tackling climate change. The Climate Investment Funds, one of the world’s largest multilateral climate financing instruments, launched its “Nature, People, and Climate” (NPC) program on Wednesday at a major UN environment conference in Stockholm. Backed so far by Italy and Sweden, and with a target of raising $500 million by November, the NPC will provide finance and expertise to initiatives that conserve wildlife, plants and forests, promote sustainable agriculture and food supplies, and enable people to cope with rising seas and extreme weather. “Nature-based solutions help reduce emissions, support communities adapting to a changing climate and protect biodiversity,” Matilda Ernkrans, Sweden’s international development minister, said in a statement. Backed so far by Italy and Sweden, and with a target of raising $500 million by November, the NPC will provide finance and expertise to initiatives that conserve wildlife, plants and forests, promote sustainable agriculture and food supplies, and enable people to cope with rising seas and extreme weather. The new program expects to invest in efforts to expand approaches like carbon storage, mangrove restoration and climate resilience in small island developing states, sub-Saharan Africa and forested countries around the globe. The NPC also aims to partner with indigenous groups and communities living in and around protected areas, who experts say play a vital role in conservation. Improving conservation and management of natural areas, such as parks, oceans, forests and wildernesses, is seen as crucial to safeguarding the ecosystems on which humans depend and to limiting global warming to internationally agreed targets. The new NPC program expects to invest in efforts to expand approaches like carbon storage, mangrove restoration and climate resilience in small island developing states, sub-Saharan Africa and forested countries around the globe. Global annual spending to protect and restore nature on land needs to triple this decade to about $350 billion by 2030, a UN report said last year. Boosting finance for developing nations to better protect their nature-rich ecosystems is a longstanding challenge. Earlier this year, international green groups called on the world’s richest nations to provide at least $60 billion a year to protect and restore biodiversity in developing countries. In addition, the NPC aims to partner with indigenous groups and communities living in and around protected areas, who experts say play a vital role in conservation.