DUBAI: Dubai Customs have made 936 drug seizures at its customs ports in the first four months of 2022, state news agency WAM reported. 
 Dubai Customs successfully thwarted hundreds of attempts to smuggle narcotic substances, including tramadol tablets, captagon, opium, heroin, hemp seeds, crystal meth, marijuana, and other narcotics, according to WAM. 
The major seizures in the first four months of 2022 included an attempt to smuggle amphetamines into the country in 2,968 boxes of coffee creamer, which was discovered at Jebel Ali port.  
At Dubai International Airport, Dubai Customs officers thwarted an attempt to smuggle 97 capsules of heroin weighing at 955 grams that a passenger had swallowed. 
The Inland Customs Centers Management made 10 seizures of crystal meth during the first four months of this year.
An African passenger at Dubai International Airport was caught trying to smuggle 42 kilograms of marijuana hidden inside bags of dried hot peppers. 
With the use of early warning technology represented by the Smart Risk Engine, authorities were able to identify all suspicious shipments in advance, WAM reported.  #DubaiCustoms revealed an achievement of 936 drug seizures at all customs ports across land, sea, and air in the first four months of 2022, compared to 558 seizures in the same period last year#DrugAbuseDay #NoDrugs #BorderSecurity pic.twitter.com/tm41U7fY0O — جمارك دبي | Dubai Customs (@DubaiCustoms) June 27, 2022 The customs centers are provided with the latest inspection devices, including an advanced container inspection system – the latest integrated global system for scanning and inspecting containers and moving trucks. 
Between January and April 2022, the Passenger Operations Department made 222 seizures, while the Inland Customs Centers Management made 501 seizures. During those four months, the Air Cargo Centers Management made 207 seizures, and the Sea Customs Centers Management made six seizures. 
The latest seizures are part of Dubai Customs’ aim to counter all forms of smuggling attempts, especially narcotics, and protect society and the national economy from their negative effects, the WAM report said. 
“Protecting the community is a major strategic goal in Dubai Customs and its five-year plan, and we are giving this role a great priority in light of the increasing risks, and as part of our commitment to our national duty,” said Ahmed Mahboob Musabih, Director-General of Dubai Customs and CEO of Ports, Customs and Free Zone Corporation. 