NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United will head to Portugal’s capital Lisbon to take on Champions League quarter-finalists Benfica in yet another stellar pre-season encounter. The Magpies have confirmed they will take on the Eagles in the Eusebio Cup on Tuesday, July 26 as their summer schedule continues to take shape. The announcement comes just days after the club revealed a double-header at St. James’ Park against Italian outfit Atalanta on Friday, July 29, and La Liga side Athletic Bilbao the following day. The Eusebio Cup is an invitational match hosted by Benfica in honor of their legendary striker Eusebio da Silva Ferreira, widely regarded as the greatest ever player to pull on their famous red shirt. The last time the competition was staged was in 2018 when Lyon beat the hosts 3-2. The likes of Real Madrid, Ajax, AC Milan, Inter Milan, and Arsenal have all competed for the trophy in previous years. The level of opposition this summer will undoubtedly whet the appetite of United fans and prove a stiff challenge ahead of the Premier League season. It is in stark contrast to the games organized under Steve Bruce and Mike Ashley last season with trips to the likes of York City, Harrogate Town, and Burton Albion the high points. Behind the scenes, Eddie Howe has urged the club to make sure this summer’s pre-season fixtures pose a real challenge for his players, with the head coach keen to hit the ground running in 2022/23, another contrast to the last campaign’s 14-game winless start to the season. Last season Benfica made it to the last eight of the Champions League — beaten only by finalists Liverpool — and finished the Primeira Liga campaign in third place. United’s only competitive meetings with Benfica came in 2012/13 at the quarter-final stage of the Europa League. Alan Pardew’s side bowed out of the competition 4-2 over two legs, losing the away leg at Estadio da Luz 3-1 then falling short at St. James’ Park with a 1-1 draw. United’s pre-season is starting to take shape following the late, unexpected cancellation of a trip to the US and participation in the Ohio Cup. Newcastle are still in the process of arranging a pre-season camp, likely to be in Europe, for mid-July, while the players are to return to a partly revamped Benton training facility on Friday, July 1.  Liam Kennedy NewcastleWorld Editor@LiamJKennedy23