NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United will not have a new main shirt sponsor for the 2022/23 season with Fun88 to remain emblazoned on the club’s new black and white strip. The Magpies today revealed the new design of their home shirt, with the most noticeable feature, aside from the aesthetic changes, being the continued presence of Chinese firm Fun88 in the center of the new top. It had been widely speculated United would rip up their long-standing deal with their sponsors, in order to replace it with a more lucrative pact. However, having signed a long-term agreement with Fun88 in 2020, the company’s name, for now, will remain. The firm has been United’s main shirt sponsor since 2017. Rumors of potential deals to bring in the likes of Aramco or Saudia, the Kingdom’s airline, as main sponsors, which would have brought increased spending power to North East England, were clearly wide of the mark. The move has undoubtedly been greeted with disappointment on Tyneside with fans keen to see all remnants of the previous regime removed from the football club.   In October 2021, previous owner Mike Ashley, of Sports Direct fame, was bought out by current majority shareholders, the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia, with PCP Capital Partners and RB Sports & Media taking a further 10 percent stake each. Confirming the news, a club statement this morning read: “Newcastle United has unveiled the club’s new 2022/23 home shirt by premium sportswear brand Castore. “Ready for a new challenge in the Premier League, players and supporters will unite once again in iconic black and white stripes while honoring the club’s 130-year history. “Castore’s latest design combines traditional elements of the club’s memorable home kits together with modern touches, creating a classic black and white jersey that is inspired by the past and built for the future. “All Newcastle United kits are crafted with a blend of high-stretch fabrics and cut to enhance performance, offering exceptional ease of movement on the pitch and in the stands. “The elite ‘Pro’ edition of the shirt, which will be worn by the first team on the pitch, features Castore’s finest innovation technology with laser-cut ventilation at the underarms to keep players cool and focused during play.” Supporters can pre-order the 2022/23 Newcastle United home shirt at shop.nufc.co.uk, the club stated. Further sponsorship deals are in the pipeline, however, with a new sleeve sponsor likely. Arab News understands a deal to flank the club’s Premier League shirts with Visit Botswana has been considered.