RIYADH: The Kingdom’s national boxing umbrella body and several local organizations held a two-day exhibition at Salt Gym in Riyadh over the weekend to help promote the sport in the country. Organized by the gym and TKO Fighters, and supported by the Saudi Arabian Boxing Federation, it included participants from 12 nations across the world. The athletes were from Saudi Arabia, Germany, Australia, India, Nigeria, Sudan, and France. There are now plans to hold a similar event later this year. “Boxing has been growing tremendously in Saudi Arabia. The Saudi Boxing Federation has been going through a major transformation to adopt the fast-growing ecosystem by paving the way for future athletes,” said Rasha Al-Khamis, the vice president of the organization, and board member of the Asian Boxing Federation. “I believe when the federation and private gyms join forces, that’s where you can see miracles happen. I’m pleased to see the private gyms are playing a key role in the Saudi boxing ecosystem and honing the athletes’ skills to start fighting at regional and international level.” In particular, Al-Khamis praised the efforts of coach Lee Starks of TKO Fighters and their collaborative efforts with Salt Gym. Starks told Arab News that the objective of the exhibition was to foster relationships and build the infrastructure of boxing, with an eye to create local world-class fighters. “I am incredibly optimistic that soon the world will see Saudi female boxers and male boxers competing for a title belt,” he said. “There’s so much talent with potential and I feel blessed to offer my expertise in fostering relationships and building the infrastructure of boxing,” said Starks. “The development of long-term friendships and networks through the sport of boxing is a form of social capital that many protagonists cite as being both a cause and an effect of participation, and boxing is no exception. The boxing community sees itself as social capital and catalyst in Saudi Arabia.” The event was open to male and female fighters — with one bout being mixed-gender — and falls under the banner of Saudi Vision 2030, which encourages widespread and regular participation in sports and athletic activities. “Working in partnership with the private sector to establish a common vision is part of our ambition,” said Sara Al-Shahrani, a participant from Saudi Arabia. “Boxing is a sport with a global presence, (and) enjoys a popularity that transcends nationalities and builds bridges between cultures. We had fighters from 12 countries who come from different backgrounds and engage in the sport for all kinds of different reasons.” “Our coaches take great pride in being able to point to the multicultural membership of their clubs and fighters,” she said. “This inclusivity takes on additional significance for women like myself who haven’t had the infrastructure in the past.” The exhibition was welcomed by other participants from around the world. “You never know how strong and powerful you can become until you step into that ring,” said Christin Reuter, from Germany. “Once in the ring you must put everything you’ve learned to the ultimate test. In this moment there is no running away anymore, it’s where you’re forced to confront your fears of pain and failure. “The exhibition marked the beginning of a new movement in which female fighters and athletes can demonstrate their dedication to the sport,” she added. “Moreover, to my understanding this was the first ever platform for both men and women to demonstrate together their shared love for boxing. It’s about the community and how it’s growing and facilitating change in the Kingdom. I am simply thrilled to be part of this.” The exhibition had pre-match weigh-ins and face-offs, and bouts of three rounds, with each round lasting one minute. It also saw Saudi football legend Majed Abdullah deliver a motivational speech to encourage the participants ahead of their fights.