CAIRO: “The Arab Republic of Egypt and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have long enjoyed historical strong relations, through a strategic bilateral partnership and the continuous coordination on issues of common interest,” Egyptian Minister of Planning and Economic Development, Dr. Hala Helmy El-Said, told Arab News ahead of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s visit to Egypt. The deep-rooted ties binding the two countries and their peoples have seen the pair work together to boost economic relations and provide a solid base for investment in infrastructure. “The interconnectedness between both nations has activated an institutional cooperation in trade, investment, electricity, oil and petrochemicals, telecommunications and finance, and has witnessed a golden era of unprecedented developments affirming strengthened solidarity and partnership,” said El-Said. “Renowned for their deep-rooted and extended historic relations, Egypt and Saudi Arabia share a mutual vision of sustainable development, stability, and inclusive growth with an ambition to drive prosperity for the region.” The historic relations of the two countries date back to when King Abdulaziz, the unifier of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, created the foreign policy structure of the country, beginning with Egypt as his first visit. “Furthermore, both nations enjoy a strong sense of solidarity with decades of unified relations in trade and investment. An example of these perpetual ties can be seen in the form of the volume of trade and investment.” The minister added, “Egypt and Saudi Arabia are pivotal countries in the Middle East; together they constitute about 34 percent of the region's population and constitute about 39 percent of the Arab region’s GDP, which makes them an important economic hub in the region.” “The consistent harmonious ties between both countries have made the historic and strengthened relations a model to be followed in Arab-Arab cooperation due to its strength and its establishment on powerful foundations of sincere understanding, continuous consultation, mutual respect, and common interests.” The economic and strategic bilateral ties between both countries affirm the commitment of their political leadership led by President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and the Saudi leadership, the minister said, to “further develop and consolidate these relations and push them to broad horizons that meet the aspirations of the two nations. The crown prince is on the first leg of a tour of the region and will visit Jordan and Turkey in the next few days.