Saudi Arabia started their preparations for the World Cup on Sunday with a 1-0 loss to Colombia in Spain. Here are five things we learned. 1. Colombia deserved the win While results are not that important at the moment, there is little doubt that this one reflected the overall play. The South Americans attacked aggressively from the kickoff, getting in behind what was a leaden Saudi Arabian defense to take the lead after nine minutes. It was a flowing move and finished off well but a short pass on the right wing cut open the defense. In the first half, Colombia had a lot of joy on the Saudi left. In truth, they could have been three goals ahead by the break. Not long after the opener, there was a goal ruled out. The Yellows were finding too much space in and around the area. The successful qualification for the World Cup was built upon a strong defense but not enough protection was given from midfield to the backline. The introduction of Mohamed Kanno at the break added more physicality and energy to this area and matters improved in the second half. The Saudi team rarely looked dangerous going forward and with defensive issues, there is a lot of work to do ahead of the next game. 2. Chance missed to increase self-belief Everyone in Asia knows that Saudi Arabia are a much-improved team and were impressive in qualification, topping Group B ahead of Japan and Australia. The problem that all Asian teams have — especially after a pandemic that limited travel and games — is that there is still a big gap between playing the average Asian team and facing the average European or South American opponent. That is why as many tests as possible against such teams are needed. After all, it was in the last century that Saudi Arabia beat one at the World Cup. Playing against an experimental and inexperienced Colombian team, who have been without a coach, was a great opportunity to increase confidence and show the Green Falcons that they can best South American opposition. At this stage, results in friendly games are not that important but victory would have been a great start to preparations for the World Cup, not in terms of tactics or selections tried, but in terms of injecting self-belief that Saudi Arabia can compete with anyone. 3. Absences made a difference It is hard to say what effect coach Herve Renard’s absence due to health had on the performance but it was clear that certain players were missed. Salem Al-Dawsari has been the team’s most dangerous player for some time and his absence was noticeable. When Saudi Arabia gained possession in midfield, the killer pass was not there and nor was the threat from just outside the area. Even when he is relatively quiet, other teams target the Al-Hilal star, meaning there is more space for others. The second half was better but thrust and composure were still missing in attack. In the opening minute, Saudi Arabia won possession in a dangerous area but the move broke down just outside the area. The best chance came midway through the second half as Hattan Al-Bahebri stole the ball and advanced on goal. His low shot from the edge of the area was well-saved but had it been Al-Dawsari standing unmarked to his right rather than Abdullah Al-Hamdan then maybe he would have passed and maybe it would have been 1-1. We will never know. 4. There should not be too much criticism There have already been murmurings that the result and performance are not good enough and while it was disappointing, this is just the first of a number of games and training together over the coming months. Such tests are designed to offer different challenges and experiences and give the players a taste of South America or Europe, and the coaching staff a view of what needs to be done. If there is a similar performance in the final games before the World Cup then there will be cause for concern but this is no time to overreact. Coach Renard should be given the leeway to change things around a little and look at different players, he has earned that much in his time so far. One positive is that there is another game coming quickly later this week and time to train together before. Renard has work to do. Against Venezuela on Thursday, fans shouldn’t expect the finished article, but they will be looking for an improvement over what happened on Sunday. 5. Venezuela will present a different challenge Colombia are a respected opponent, no matter what situation they are currently in, but Venezuela, who come next on Thursday, are not normally seen as one of the stronger teams in South America and indeed finished bottom in CONMEBOL qualification. Yet they will be no pushovers. This is a team that is physical, aggressive, hard to break down and well-organized. There are no stars, unless you count Everton striker Salomon Rondon, but they work hard for each other. Coach Jose Pekerman is experienced with spells in charge of Argentina and Colombia. For La Vinotinto, beating a team that will appear at the World Cup will be a big deal and they will be eager to win. This will be a tough game and that is exactly what Saudi Arabia want and need.