JEDDAH: Saudi Arabia’s Health Minister Fahad Al-Jalajel on Wednesday inspected several health facilities in the Makkah Health Cluster. The visit was conducted to assess the readiness and preparations of the integrated health services. The minister also closely reviewed the progress of work in the sites that provide care to pilgrims ahead of the upcoming Hajj season. Al-Jalajel was accompanied by the chairman of the advisory council of the Makkah Health Cluster, Dr. Adnan Al-Mazrooa, and the undersecretary, Dr. Hani Jokhdar. Other officials include the acting CEO of the Makkah Health Cluster, Dr. Hatem Al-Omari, and the director general of health affairs in Makkah, Dr. Wael Mutair. The tour included the health sectors in the Arafat area represented by East Arafat Hospital, Arafat General Hospital, Jabal Al-Rahma Hospital, Namira General Hospital and Arafat Health Center. The minister was presented with a detailed explanation of the departments in the centers and the services they provide, outlining the application of the health requirements and protocols approved by the ministry. The minister then went to Mina and made an inspection tour of Mina Al-Wadi Hospital, Mina New Street Hospital, Mina Emergency Hospital, Mina Al-Jaser Hospital, in addition to Mina Health Centers 2 and 17, during which he was briefed on the level of services provided. Al-Jalajel concluded his inspection tour by visiting King Abdullah Medical City (KMAC) in Makkah, during which he visited various departments — notably the emergency, cardiology, oncology and inpatient sections — and heard a detailed explanation on aspects of the specialized services provided by the medical city. He also met with the directors of the health cluster in Makkah and the holy sites. After the tour, the minister held a meeting at KAMC headquarters with Al-Mazrooa and the leaders of the Health Cluster in Makkah where he was briefed on work mechanisms, current work focuses and the most prominent challenges faced by the medical staff. Al-Jalajel urged the staff to raise capacity inside hospitals and reaffirmed their commitments to make all efforts to serve patients, beneficiaries and visitors to the Grand Mosque to improve health services.