DUBAI: Congratulations are in order for Nora Attal. The British-Moroccan model got married to her longtime partner, Victor Bastidas, this week. The newlyweds tied the knot against the backdrop of orange and palm trees in a stunning outdoor ceremony in the presence of their loved ones in Ibiza, Spain. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The nuptials were attended by Attal’s family and close friends, including her parents Charlie and Bouchra, her siblings, Bastidas’s family and fellow models Vittoria Ceretti, Blesnya Minher and Mona Tougaard.   While Attal has not publicly announced her marriage to the cinematographer, she shared snippets from the wedding ceremony by way of Instagram Story reposts of videos and photos taken by the guests in attendance, who flew in from all over the world to attend the ceremony. The 22-year-old model offered followers a quick glimpse of her nuptials, sharing a sneak peek of her elegant wedding dress, her walking down the aisle with her father and the fun-filled reception party to celebrate the newlyweds. Attal said “I do” wearing a creamy white slip dress with thin straps, lace details and a ruffled hemline. She accessorized the elegant look with a long, lace-embroidered veil.   As for her hair and makeup, the new bride chose to keep it simple, opting for center-parted loose waves and a clean makeup look in the form of well-groomed eyebrows, rose lips and peachy eyeshadow. After tying the knot, she changed into a short beaded mini dress as she danced the night away with her family and friends.   Attal announced her engagement to Bastidas in 2020. Captioning a series of images of the proposal on Instagram, the 22-year-old model told her 45,000 followers: “Forever my life partner... @sictor.” The proposal took place on a beach in Formentera, an island in Spain. Among the pictures the bride-to-be shared, Attal showed off her engagement ring — a round-cut solitaire.   It is unclear when exactly the couple started dating, but Attal has worked with the UK-based cinematographer on multiple shoots, from magazine covers to brand deals. They also recently appeared together in US label Ralph Lauren’s fashion campaign for Eid Al-Fitr, alongside Attal’s parents and two siblings.