LONDON: Instagram launched new parental control features across the UK on Tuesday, including the option to set a daily time limit on Instagram use among teens.
The new features allow parents of users under 18 to set daily time limits between 15 minutes and two hours.
Once the users reach the specified time limit, a black screen will appear on Instagram for the rest of the day.
Parents can also schedule break times for their children and receive an alert for when their child reports an account or a post, as well as why they reported it.
The new features allow parents to view their child’s daily habits on the social app but will initially need their children’s permission to activate the supervision features.
Parental controls will be automatically disabled when the child turns 18.
Instagram is also trialing a nudge function that directs teenage users to look for different topics when they are seen repeatedly searching for the same thing.
First introduced in the US in March, the new package of features is likely prompted by the mounting pressure on social media platforms to regulate addictive social media use among teens.
Instagram has been battling claims that it is harmful to children since documents were leaked by whistleblower Frances Haugen last year.
The documents revealed that Meta, Instagram’s parent company, had been aware that its platform could be harmful to children’s mental and physical health.
Recently, other social media platforms have been launching similar features, with TikTok introducing new screen control features only last week.
TikTok’s screen time control feature allows users to set custom limits for how much time they want to spend on the app, encouraging users to take a break from continuous scrolling.
Additionally, the company said it will issue users between the ages of 13 and 17 “digital well-being prompts” when they have used the app for more than 100 minutes in a single day.
Recently, eight lawsuits have been filed against Meta, claiming that excessive exposure to social media platforms had led to attempted or actual suicide, eating disorders, sleeplessness and other issues.