DUBAI: The projects just keep rolling in for Sofia Boutella. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Netflix has released a new trailer for Guillermo del Toro’s hotly-anticipated horror anthology “Cabinet of Curiosities” during the streaming giant’s Geeked Week, which confirms five new cast members. Among the stars joining the series is the French Algerian actress who appears in the minute-long clip alongside other newcomers Eric André, Ismael Cruz Córdova, Kate Micucci and Charlyne Yi.   Boutella and co. join the previously announced actors Essie Davis, Luke Roberts, Andrew Lincoln, F. Murray Abraham, Glynn Turman, Ben Barnes, Elpidia Carrillo, Hannah Galway, Crispin Glover, Rupert Grint, Demetrius Grosse, David Hewlett, Tim Blake Nelson, Sebastian Roché and Peter Weller. Though Boutella does not physically appear in the trailer, the teaser reveals beloved horror directors and the titles that they are known for, as well as a glimpse at the cast of the anthology of blood curdling stories. “Cabinet of Curiosities” is a collection of live-action spooky stories by leading horror directors and are spread throughout eight episodes. Each of the eight stories will be directed by horror heavy-hitters Panos Cosmatos (“Mandy”), David Prior (“The Empty Man”), Vincenzo Natali (“Splice”), Jennifer Kent (“The Babadook”), Keith Thomas (“The Vigil”), Catherine Hardwicke (“Twilight”) and Ana Lily Amirpour (“A Girl Walks Home Alone At Night”). Created and executive produced by del Toro, “Cabinet of Curiosities” will also feature two original works by the Oscar-winning Mexican director. Meanwhile, the anthology series isn’t the only horror gig Boutella is currently working on. The Algiers-born actress is also set to feature in Tilman Singer-directed horror flick “Cuckoo” alongside “Euphoria” star Hunter Schafer, John Malkovich and Gemma Chan. A post shared by Sofia Boutella (@sofisia7) The “Atomic Blonde” actress is one of Hollywood’s busiest stars and is also currently filming “Rebel Moon,” Zack Snyder‘s sci-fi epic for Netflix. Boutella made an appearance alongside Snyder during Geeked Week, to give fans a quick update about the hotly-anticipated film. “We have an amazing cast, exciting costumes and makeup, and characters you won’t believe you’re looking at,” revealed the actress, who also divulged that she’s been training hard for months now. “I’m really proud of the team I have working,” added Snyder. “They’re doing an incredible job, so for me, it’s a dream come true.”