RIYADH: Members of the Terrorist Financing Targeting Center sanctioned 16 individuals, entities, and groups affiliated with a variety of regional terrorist organizations, Saudi Press Agency reported on Monday. The targets included three individuals associated with Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps-Quds Force (IRGC-QF), four individuals and one company associated with Daesh, six Boko Haram financiers, and terrorist groups Saraya Al-Ashtar and Saraya Al-Mukhtar. The TFTC designation action marks the fifth year of coordinated TFTC sanctions actions targeting terrorist financing. The center was created to enhance multilateral efforts among the US and the Gulf countries — Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar — to counter regional money laundering and terrorist financing networks. Member states counter these networks through three primary lines of effort: Identifying, tracking, and sharing information about terrorist financing networks; coordinating joint disruptive actions; and offering capacity-building training and assistance in countering the financing of terrorism. The names of the 13 sanctioned individuals are as follows: 1.Ali Qasir of Lebanese nationality 2. Meghdad Amini of Iranian nationality 3. Morteza Hashemi of Iranian nationality The above are part of two networks directed by and providing financial support to the IRGC-QF and Hezbollah. 4. Ismatullah Khalozai of Afghan nationality. He is an international financial facilitator for Daesh-Khorasan.
5. Alaa Khanfurah of Syrian nationality. He served as a key intermediary in facilitating financial transfers between senior Daesh leaders in 2017 and 2019. TFTC members designated six individuals connected to Nigeria-based terrorist group Boko Haram. Their names are as follows:
6. Abdurrahman Ado Musa of Nigerian nationality
7. Salihu Yusuf Adamu of Nigerian nationality
8. Bashir Ali Yusuf of Nigerian nationality
9. Muhammed Ibrahim Isa of Nigerian nationality
10. Ibrahim Ali Alhassan of Nigerian nationality
11. Surajo Abubakar Muhammad of Nigerian nationality TFTC members designated two individuals from the Syria-based Qatirji network that facilitated oil sales to Daesh, and their business Al-Qatirji Company: 12. Muhammad Baraa Al-Qatirji of Syrian nationality facilitated fuel trade between the Syrian regime and Daesh, including providing oil products to Daesh-controlled territory. Muhammad Al-Qatirji is the CEO of Al-Qatirji Company. 13. Hussam Al-Qatirji was involved in the oil and wheat trade with Daesh. Beginning in 2014, Hussam Al-Qatirji started brokering oil and wheat trade deals between the Syrian regime and Daesh. The sanctioned entities and groups are listed as follows: 1. Syria-based Al-Qatirji Company, a trucking company that has also shipped weapons from Iraq to Syria. 2. Saraya Al-Mukhtar 3. Saraya Al-Ashtar Saraya Al-Mukhtar and Saraya Al-Ashtar are both affiliated with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. All funds and assets belonging to the individuals, entities, and groups listed above must be frozen, and it is prohibited to carry out any direct or indirect dealings with them, for their benefit, or on their behalf, SPA said. The agency said legal measures will be taken against anyone whose relationship with the individuals or entities mentioned above is proven.