DOHA: The International Air Transport Association, also known as IATA, has launched CO2 Connect, an online tool that provides the most accurate carbon dioxide emission calculations for any given commercial passenger flight, as it aims to achieve net zero by 2050. CO2 Connect was launched during the IATA Annual General Meeting in Doha on June 19. In an exclusive interview with Arab News on the sidelines of the Annual General Meeting, Frederic Leger, senior VP for commercial products & services of IATA revealed that achieving net zero is necessary for the survival of planet earth as well as for the aviation industry. He also added that IATA is taking all necessary steps including investments to ensure a sustainable future. Leger further noted that achieving net zero by 2050 is an ambitious but a realistic target set by the industry. “The industry is going to do everything possible to meet that goal, which is something that everybody is looking forward to. And so the investment will be made on all fronts to make sure that we are getting there, because it’s the survival of the planet and the industry,” Leger said. Talking about CO2 Connect, Leger added, “The CO2 Connect gives an estimate to each passenger regarding carbon emissions. IATA is also working with aircraft manufacturers to find ways to have engines which consume less fuel and be cleaner. It is a collective effort that we should all strive for.” With CO2 Connect, IATA aims to give CO2 data transparency linked to airline-specific and actual fuel burn information. In a recent statement, IATA revealed that CO2 Connect is available to companies within and outside the travel value chain, such as travel management companies, travel agencies, airlines or multinational corporations. Leger further added that IATA is working on hydrogen alternatives to achieve the net-zero targets. He, however, did not divulge more details regarding the progress of these hydrogen initiatives. “I think there’s some work being done on the hydrogen aspect. It’s still to be seen what the results of that are going to be. I think it’s being looked at very carefully and we’ll see whether that could be an option. All the good options will definitely be part of the agenda of the industry,” said Leger. Leger added that IATA is working collectively with everybody to make rules and regulations that could bring the travel and tourism industry back to pre-pandemic levels.