Mohammed Al-Rumaih has been CEO of the Saudi Exchange, an authorized entity acting as the securities exchange, since 2021. Before his current role, he was chief of markets for three years, overseeing Saudi Exchange markets operations, including the main market, the Nomu-parallel market, sukuk and bonds. Since joining the Saudi Exchange in 2009, Al-Rumaih has held various leadership positions, including head of primary market, and chief of sales and marketing between 2013 and 2018. He has extensive experience in the financial services sector, and has led the exchange through a period of exponential growth and transformation, including the group’s first Saudi Capital Market Forum in 2022, where he announced a pipeline of initial public offerings and the largest bundle of market enhancements in the history of the Saudi capital market.
 
Al-Rumaih played key roles in the exchange’s adoption of new market enhancements and products to further cement its status as an advanced capital market and regional powerhouse. His notable achievements include working toward Saudi Arabia’s inclusion in Morgan Stanley Capital International Emerging Markets Index, FTSE Russell’s Emerging Index, and S&P Dow Jones Indices, the revamp of the Nomu-parallel market, the success of the Saudi Capital Market enhancement program, and facilitating the smooth public listing of Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest IPO. Since then, Al-Rumaih has been instrumental in preparing the Saudi Exchange to host more mega-listings, such as Nahdi Medical Co., the second-largest listing in Saudi Arabia since Aramco. He has also been leading the development of the debt market, ETFs and closed-ended funds in the exchange, resulting in a higher number of listings and investor participation across the board. With more than 70 IPOs in the pipeline as of March 2022 and increasing interest of foreign investors in the Saudi market, Al-Rumaih is leading the Saudi Exchange through a period of notable growth. In 2004, Al-Rumaih graduated from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals with a bachelor’s degree in management information systems, and in 2013 he earned an MBA from the Manchester Business School.