LONDON: Netflix said on Wednesday that it is planning to roll out a reality competition show based on the hit series “Squid Game” with a $4.56 million prize and creepy challenges. “Squid Game: The Challenge” will feature 456 participants competing in a series of games inspired by the show for a chance to win the largest lump sum jackpot in the history of reality TV. “Squid Game” was viewed by 1.65 billion people in the first 28 days of its release in September last year, making it the most popular show in the platform’s history. “As (players) compete through a series of games inspired by the original show, plus surprising new additions, their strategies, alliances and character will be put to the test while competitors are eliminated around them,” Netflix said in a statement. Elements of the fictional drama will be incorporated into the new reality show. However, it will not be a life-or-death matter, as depicted in the South Korean dystopian show. In its statement, Brandon Reigg, Netflix’s vice president of documentary series, said the reality show will draw on director Hwang Dong-hyuk’s “captivating story and iconic imagery,” adding that the company was grateful for his support in developing “Squid Game: The Challenge.” Netflix also announced earlier this week that the series will be renewed for a second season Recruits in the new contest show are required to speak English, must be at least 21, and will have to be available for up to four weeks in early 2023 for filming. The number of 456 participants is significant as it follows the exact number of players in the original series, with principal character Seong Gi-hun being the 456th player. The South Korean thriller tells the story of heavily indebted people who compete to win a cash prize in a life-threatening series of children-themed games. Hwang said in a statement : “It took 12 years to bring the first season of ‘Squid Game’ to life last year. But it took 12 days for ‘Squid Game’ to become the most popular Netflix series ever.”