PHNOM PENH: Muslim World League Secretary-General Dr. Mohammed bin Abdulkarim Al-Issa recently visited Cambodia and met with the country’s leaders. Al-Issa met Cambodian King Norodom Sihamoni in the capital, Phnom Penh. The king praised the MWL for strengthening alliances between diverse people and religions around the world. In a tweet, Al-Issa said: “I commend King Norodom Sihamoni’s welcoming words and appreciation of the efforts of the MWL. I applaud the national harmony in Cambodia that has encompassed the Muslims, who enjoy their full religious freedom.” The MWL chief also met Cambodia’s Prime Minister Hun Sen, after which he tweeted: “Very good meeting with Prime Minister Hun Sen of Cambodia, to whom I commended the harmony of the Cambodian people, their respect for religious privacy, inclusion of Islam, participation in celebrations and promotion of Muslim empowerment and other national groups.” Al-Issa also met with some of Cambodia’s deputy prime ministers, including Minister of National Defense Tia Banh, with whom he discussed several issues related to efforts to promote international peace, and Minister of Interior Sar Kheng. With the latter, Al-Issa discussed the role religious leaders can play in enhancing societal and national peace. Kheng praised the MWL and thanked the organization for its support of Cambodia during the pandemic. Al-Issa met with the president of the Cambodian Senate, Say Chhum, and several senators. Chhum said his country is proud of its Muslim community. He also hailed Al-Issa’s “internationally well-known achievements.” The MWL secretary-general met the Grand Buddhist Patriarch of Cambodia, Tep Fong, and Patriarch Bor Kri. They called the visit by an Islamic leader of Al-Issa’s stature “historic” and “an important step in strengthening cooperation among religions.” At the invitation of Islamic leaders in Cambodia, Al-Issa also gave a speech at the Al-Serkal Mosque in Phnom Penh, addressing major issues surrounding Islam and its role in the world. At the Islamic Center in Phnom Penh, Cambodian Islamic leaders commended Al-Issa’s efforts to promote religious harmony in diverse societies, an undertaking that they said had helped Muslim minorities in Cambodia.