RIYADH: Now that summer has arrived and the school year ended, Boulevard Riyadh City is the place to be with activities for everyone. It’s best to go early because entry is free and the place will be packed. Doos Karting For adrenaline junkies, Doos Karting is the perfect place for you to show off your driving skills and win podiums against family and friends. The pre-Formula 1 stage race lasts anywhere between five and eight laps on two tracks. The first is 435 meters and has three challenging turns. The second is more streamlined, at 465 meters, with only two turns. You can have a great time and experience an adrenaline rush while traveling at a top speed of 80 km/h. Up to 10 karters can race concurrently on the multi-level tracks. Takenda Avoid the summer heat and enjoy a fantastic fun day in Takenda, the Middle East’s most prominent technology entertainment destination. Takenda connects to a lounge where people can sit, relax, and enjoy a beverage while taking in the scenery of the boulevard. You can also have a karaoke night with friends, throw a party with a stage and projector, enjoy a mascot show, and have three hours of VIP parking. Takenda has over 60,000 games suitable for all ages, whether you are five or 50. Visitors can play classic ones like bumper cars, arcade, table hockey, novelty, and virtual reality in a modern setting. Adventure Park If you like physical activities, the indoor adventure park is for you. The place allows you to scale 10 different walls inspired by real locations in the Kingdom, including the mountains of Tuwaiq, Shammar, Hijaz, Al-Lawz, Faisal’s Finger, Al-Qara and Souda. There are also other walls mimicking climbing areas in Wadi Lajab, Harrat Rahat and Ain Heet Cave. Children can also play in the monkey cage or on trampolines. In the future, the company will open halls in Baha and other regions of Saudi Arabia. Upark If you are interested in skateboarding, Upark’s facilities will allow you to enjoy yourself thoroughly. For beginners, training is provided for one-hour sessions. Avalanche Let’s not forget the world’s tallest fun slide in the Avalanche attraction for those daring enough. In the same area, a special section has been set up for those wanting to paint, draw or make pottery.   