JEDDAH: Travel technology company Amadeus has signed a deal with the Saudi Tourism Authority to provide a destination management system that would enhance tourism and mobility in the Kingdom. Speaking on the sidelines of the 116th Executive Council of the UN World Tourism Organization, Nashat Bukhari, managing director of Amadeus, Saudi Arabia & Bahrain, told Arab News that the technology would help the Kingdom attract tourists and new businesses into the region. “We provide an application to show the traffic situation, where the travelers are, and how to attract and convert travelers. Hopefully, this will attract many travelers and tourists to Saudi Arabia,” he said. The ecosystem starts with inspiring the traveler about the destination, showing what they should expect to see, which enables travel agencies to book airline tickets, accommodation, and transportation accordingly. “Amadeus is the world’s largest travel technology company, with regional offices in more than 114 countries,” he said. The company holds a 77 percent market share in the Kingdom, providing technology services in tourism, airlines and hospitality. The company uses sophisticated software associated with Microsoft Cloud to preserve the maximum amount of data. The Madrid-based company works with many regional companies, including Saudi Arabian Airlines, The Red Sea Development Co., and Hilton Hotels & Resorts, in addition to public entities such as the Saudi Ministry of Tourism and the Saudi Ministry of Investment. “We have hospitality systems to provide hotels, which can be used for reservations and property management,” said Bukhari. Amadeus’ client segment also includes travel agencies, providing them with traveling systems to manage their workflow. “We provide the travel agencies with technology to fulfill the needs of the travelers,” he said. Amadeus recently developed a platform for Riyadh-based travel company Seera Group to speed up customer post-booking experience. The company’s advanced post-booking technology solutions provide numerous optimization benefits, drastically reducing the time needed to reissue tickets across all Seera’s omnichannel touch points by automating the process. According to a press statement, requests for ticket changes, whether made via Seera’s travel verticals on booking platforms, call centers, in-branch, or WhatsApp channels, can now be processed in less than five minutes. Seera Group is also the first to use these technologies to issue and reissue tickets for Saudi government entities, the statement said.