RIYADH: The Camel Club and the Imam Abdulaziz bin Mohammed Royal Reserve Development Authority have signed a memorandum of understanding to create a framework to support and preserve the national heritage of desert life and promote sustainability and community awareness. The MoU defines the framework for implementing joint projects and programs between the Camel Club and the reserves of Imam Abdulaziz bin Mohammed and King Khalid Royal Reserve. It aims to improve collaboration and coordination between the two parties to activate procedures and measures to achieve ecosystem sustainability and development in the two reserves. It emphasizes collaboration and partnership in spreading environmental knowledge and awareness, as well as enhancing the cultural heritage associated with camels and desert life, by engaging local communities and visitors in programs and activities that encourage adopting environmentally sustainable behaviors and lifestyles. The two sides affirmed their efforts to launch initiatives to support cultural programs and community awareness to develop environmental concepts, consolidate the principles of social responsibility, and spread environmental awareness to visitors of the two reserves, the club and the surrounding local communities. The organizations will provide technical support and studies and share accumulated experiences to serve the purposes and objectives of both parties, according to the memorandum. The Camel Club and the authority will collaborate in preparing environmental and health requirements and controls related to visitors’ behaviors and the ethics of dealing with nature and its resources, ensuring sustainability and “without disturbing the environmental balance,” according to the memorandum. Bandar Al-Qahtani, executive director of the Camel Club, said that the agreement encourages the support and rehabilitation of local communities through entrepreneurship to strengthen the local economy, to raise the level of services provided, and provide cultural and entertainment programs and activities based on national heritage. Talal Al-Hariqi, CEO of the authority, said that the MoU with the Camel Club indicates the importance of enhancing collaboration to achieve the sustainability and development of ecosystems, and encouraging investment and best practices related to ecotourism while maintaining biological balance and natural heritage diversity. Al-Hariqi said that the MoU seeks to launch initiatives to support cultural programs and collaborate in building national capabilities and training Saudis in the environment and culture associated with desert life and the national heritage of camels. The Camel Club was established in 2017 by a royal decree, which aims to care for and develop the camel sector, innovate and develop investment opportunities related to it, and consolidate interest in camels as part of the authentic heritage of the Kingdom. The Imam Abdulaziz bin Mohammed Royal Reserve and the King Khalid Royal Reserve are ecotourism attractions near the city of Riyadh, as well as historical landmarks with a varied landscape of valleys and mountains and abundant biodiversity, including fungi and indigenous tree species such as Jujube and acacia.