LONDON: The EU reached a provisional agreement on Tuesday that stipulates all smartphones and tablets would have to start using a common universal charger by 2024. The agreement means that all companies, including tech giants Apple and Google, would be obliged to make devices such as phones, tablets, e-readers and digital cameras use the USB-C charger. The law is a part of a wider EU effort to make products in the region more sustainable, reduce electronic waste and make consumers’ lives easier. Under the new rules, the EU hopes that consumers will no longer need a different charging device and cable for each new device. “A common charger is common sense for the many electronic devices on our daily lives,” Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton said in a statement. “European consumers will be able to use a single charger for all their portable electronics — an important step to increase convenience and reduce waste,” he added. This law is a particular blow to Apple which said in a statement that the move would decrease innovation. “We share the European Commission’s commitment to protecting the environment and are already carbon neutral for all of our corporate emissions worldwide,” the statement said. “We remain concerned that strict regulation mandating just one type of connector stifles innovation rather than encouraging it, which in turn will harm consumers in Europe and around the world. We look forward to continued engagement with stakeholders to help find a solution that protects consumer interest, as well as the industry’s ability to innovate and bring exciting new technology to users.” However, the company is currently testing future iPhone models that replace the current Lightning charging port with the more common USB-C connector. Current Apple laptop models already use the USB-C charger. About 15 products, including headsets, video-game consoles and headphones, are included in the proposal. According to the European Commission, the deal will save consumers an estimated &euro;250 million ($267 million) each year. The European Parliament as well as 27 EU countries need to sign off on the agreement. Phones and tablet manufacturers must comply with the new rules by 2024. Laptops will also need to be adapted to the new requirements.