RIYADH: Palestine’s ambassador to Saudi Arabia has praised the Kingdom for its financial assistance and support over several decades. Basem Abdullah Al-Agha met Ahmed bin Ali Al-Baiz, assistant supervisor general for operations and programs at the King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center, to discuss issues of common interest related to humanitarian affairs. Al-Agha told Arab News on Wednesday that the talks followed on from previous meetings with KSrelief, and were “an extension of our gratitude to the Kingdom, King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, and to the generous Saudi people for their ongoing support and the assistance over decades.” Support from KSrelief reaches about 80 countries, he said. The center offered assistance to Palestine’s Ministry of Health during the pandemic, including the provision of vaccines. “It’s our duty to give our gratitude to the center,” Al-Agha added. He also expressed hope that further assistance will be provided to meet Palestinians’ health needs, including support for hospitals in Jerusalem, the West Bank and Gaza. Saudi Arabia remains one of the top providers of financial aid for Palestine. Between 2000-2018, the Kingdom provided more than $6.4 billion in aid to Palestine, according to the Kingdom’s humanitarian groups. Khaled Manzlawiy, Saudi Arabia’s deputy permanent representative to the UN, said in May 2020 that the Kingdom is proud to be one of the largest donors to the UN Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. “Knowing the role the agency serves for more than 5 million Palestinian refugees — and because of its belief in the (importance) of the Palestinian cause — the Kingdom has supported UNRWA with more than $1 billion since 1994, which the humanitarian organization described as clear evidence of the Kingdom’s wish to ensure Palestinian refugees enjoy dignity and well-being,” Manzlawiy said during a virtual briefing on the investigations of the Office of Internal Oversight Services and various UNRWA initiatives. Saudi Arabia on April 27 this year reaffirmed to the UN its stance over Palestine, calling for end to the Israeli occupation, the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with Jerusalem as capital, and the guaranteed right of return for refugees. Mohammed Al-Ateeq, charge d’affaires of the permanent mission of Saudi Arabia to the UN, highlighted the Kingdom’s position during a UN Security Council session on the Middle East and Palestinian situation.