JEDDAH: A memorandum of understanding has been signed between the Saudi Ministry of Culture and Diriyah Gate Development Authority to cultivate cooperation in the preservation of Saudi cultural heritage. The agreement between the ministry and DGDA was signed by the Minister of Culture Prince Badr bin Abdullah bin Farhan, and the minister of tourism and secretary-general of the authority, Ahmed bin Aqeel Al-Khatib. Prince Badr said: “We are delighted to sign this MoU with DGDA; a clear attestation to the synergies and strong collaboration between our two teams. Partnerships such as these are fundamental to our collective mission to support the development and preservation of the cultural ecosystem here in Saudi Arabia.” The agreement includes multiple aspects of cooperation between the ministry and the DGDA, the most prominent of which is collaboration in the development of cultural infrastructure with different assets that serve the cultural and artistic sector located within Diriyah. It also includes the implementation of joint cultural and heritage initiatives aimed at developing numerous educational assets, including academies of music, creative writing, theatrical arts, architecture, calligraphy, and culinary arts, as well as a digital and  a contemporary art museum. Prince Badr said: “We will continue to work with our partners at DGDA to meet the objectives of this MoU with a plethora of cultural and heritage events, activities, and megaprojects in the pipeline aimed at attracting investment and achieving short and long-term sustainability.” Al-Khatib said: “This partnership will take Diriyah’s cultural and heritage events and activities to the next level. They will be unique and diverse, reflecting its distinctive identity and rich heritage. This will also create a solid platform for investment opportunities by attracting businesses of every kind. Prince Badr continued: “Today, we enter the next stage of development where we add value to this precious historic site while protecting the cultural heritage and identity of its people. “Our agreement with DGDA reflects our shared commitment to preserving the unique history of Diriyah and creating opportunities to promote and celebrate this national treasure,” he added.