DUBAI: Mastercard unveiled its first-ever music album, “Priceless,” at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity last week. The album, available first on Spotify and then other streaming platforms, features 10 songs by 10 artists from around the world, with each song incorporating the recognizable melody of the Mastercard jingle. “Our first-ever music album featuring the inspiring, original work of 10 rising stars takes our innovative sonic branding approach to an even higher, unmatched level,” said Raja Rajamannar, Mastercard’s chief marketing and communications officer. “From Algeria to Australia and Slovenia to Sweden, each of the artists integrated our melody into their songs and created something that we are all truly proud of. We hope others will enjoy these songs as much as we do,” he added. To further its commitment to music and emerging talent, Mastercard partnered with producer Timbaland’s Beatclub music creator platform. Inspired by the original songs developed for Mastercard’s album, up-and-coming Beatclub creators were mentored by Timbaland as they remixed two standout tracks. As part of the Beatclub collaboration, Mastercard will purchase and provide one-year Beatclub memberships for hundreds of up-and-coming creators from disenfranchised communities. For Timbaland, the partnership was a “natural fit” given the companies’ “mutual goal of supporting artists and the industry.” He said: “Together we’re elevating emerging artists through the power of music and mentorship. Providing platforms, tools and connections for creators to pursue their passions opens doors for countless artists to break into an industry that is often impenetrable.” Mastercard collaborated closely with executive producer Niclas Molinder to find artists from different cultures, languages and genres. Each artist was tasked with incorporating the brand’s melody into the song, demonstrating how audio branding can be used innovatively.  The full album will feature tracks from up-and-coming artists including Michael Rice (UK), Shiraz (Lebanon), Good Harvest (Sweden), Alma Lake (Colombia/USA), Raees (Algeria), Tejas (India), Nadine Randle (UK/Sweden), Tania (Australia), Elle B. (USA) and Amaya (Slovenia). Sonic or audio branding has existed in different forms, from radio jingles to podcasts, with brands looking to cut through the clutter in innovative ways. Mastercard has already established a relationship with the music industry through the Priceless platform, working with artists like Jennifer Hudson and SZA, among others. The new album was introduced at a launch party with Mastercard’s exclusive launch partner, Spotify.