DUBAI: Victoria’s Secret model Jasmine Tookes showed off a bag by Dubai-based label L’Afshar on Instagram this week, adding another celebrity fan to the cult brand’s glittering client list. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 31-year-old model was photographed in France wearing an all-black ensemble by Lebanese label Azzi & Osta while clutching L’Afshar’s Amnis purse in a gold mirrored colorway. A post shared by L'AFSHAR (@lilianafshar) Handmade in Dubai, the $955 clutch is made of 24K electro-plated hardware. The label’s bags have been worn by more than a few Hollywood celebrities, including Laura Dern, Kylie Jenner, Kendall Jenner and Rachel Bilson. However, those aren’t the only A-listers who seem to be huge fans of the homegrown brand — actress Jasmin Sanders, Bella Hadid, Kate Upton, Alicia Keys and Chrissy Teigen have all made public appearances with L’Afshar’s arm candy on hand. Lilian Afshar, the designer behind the brand, is known for her unique, structured designs and use of marbled resin and intricate mirrorwork. Lucite — known commonly as acrylic glass — and birthstones also feature in the brand’s range of typically heavy, straight-edged clutches in a range of clear-to-saturated colors and textures. When it came to Tookes’ ensemble of choice, she kept things chic in a strapless mini dress by Azzi & Osta — a Beirut-based atelier founded by George Azzi and Assaad Osta. The look hailed from the duo’s Season 8 collection, which was inspired by 1980s glam. It isn’t the first time Tookes has favored a designer from the Middle East. In fact, the model married Snapchat’s Juan David Borrero in his home country of Ecuador in September 2021 wearing a dress by Lebanese couturier Zuhair Murad. Tookes’ custom wedding gown featured an illusion, lace-embroidered neckline, a fitted bodice and a voluminous skirt with a train. She paired the exquisite wedding dress with a sheer, floor-trailing veil. With its long sleeves and its high mandarin neck, the gown was equal parts chic and conservative. At this year’s Met Gala in New York, she showed off a custom-made emerald lame dress by Murad on one of the most coveted red carpets on the annual fashion calendar. Her love for Murad’s glamorous creations is no secret. Following the designer’s Fall 2021 couture show in Paris where she sat on the front row, she revealed that he is her “favorite designer” and she “wear(s) his dresses on almost every red carpet.”