JEDDAH:  At least 19 civilians, including three children, have been killed in Yemen over the past two months, despite a nationwide cease- fire, a UN official has said. The truce was the first tangible ebb in fighting in the past six years of the conflict. On Thursday, Yemen’s warring parties decided to renew the truce for another two months. Liz Throssell, a spokeswoman for the UN High Commissioner for Hu-man Rights, told reporters in Geneva that most of the deaths recorded since the truce first went into effect in early April were from land mines, “including improvised mines, and explosive remnants of war.” However, she said three of the 19 killed from sniper fire in the Taiz and Al-Dale provinces. Two people were seriously wounded by snipers. Also, the agency documented the wounding of four civilians, one of them a girl, by a weaponized drone. Throssell also said that 32 civilians have been wounded during the two months of truce. In a statement, the UN Security Council welcomed the extension of the truce in Yemen and “expressed hope that a strengthened truce could be translated into a durable ceasefire and an inclusive, comprehensive political settlement, under the auspices of the UN.”They also reiterated their “deep concern” about the risk of famine in Yemen and urged donors to fund the UN humanitarian appeal, the statement said. They encouraged the Yemeni parties to continue their engagement with Hans Grundberg, UN special envoy for Yemen, to negotiate and communicate with each other in a spirit of mutual respect and reconciliation. The UAE praised efforts by the UN “to reach a comprehensive and sustainable political solution and enhance prospects for peace and stability in Yemen and the region.” It called on all countries to support the ceasefire and push the parties to- wards a comprehensive solution. The UAE also emphasized the pivotal role played by Saudi Arabia in achieving stability and security in Ye- men, reiterating its commitment to standing by the Yemeni people and supporting their legitimate aspira- tions for development and prosperity. A US State Department spokes- man said on Twitter: “This extension brings further relief and hope to millions of Yemenis. Yemen has the opportunity to continue this progress and choose peace instead of war.”  