RIYADH: The Saudi Heritage Commission links local products with the international markets, CEO Dr. Jasir Alherbish said during an open virtual meeting organized by the commission on Thursday. “Some products have been registered while others have not. If they are not linked to the market, it will be a heavy burden on the commission and the owner of the product,” he said. At the meeting, which was attended by specialists and those interested in crafts and handicrafts in Saudi Arabia, Alherbish commended the Saudi craftsmen who work hard to achieve the highest practical standards in the crafts and handicrafts sector. He urged the specialized craft authorities to register in the Ministry of Culture’s platform for procurement, “Etimad,” to ensure that they receive invitations for participation and meetings of the sector and its developments. He said the demand for art products is currently “significantly parallel” with production volume. Many government and private entities require the presence of gifts and souvenirs representing national civilizations and cultures, emphasizing that the state’s support has not overlooked these important heritage tracks and that the commission “is in full agreement with the support and financing bodies to issue approvals.” The meeting discussed the commission’s most important strategic pillars in terms of protecting the cultural wealth portfolio and archaeological sites, promoting research and talent development, utilizing digital technologies in the heritage value chain, and working through large-scale partnerships at the local and international levels. “In addition to the basic fields of crafts and handicrafts such as wooden, metal, pottery, leather, textile, and many others that reflect Saudi heritage and culture, we are also interested in establishing partnerships and agreements with local and international market leaders and documenting this cultural profession that contributes to preserving our national heritage,” he said. Dr. Delayel Al-Qahtani, the director of studies and research department at Atharna, said the Kingdom has an original artistic heritage stemming from its diverse culture and environments that reflects its distinguished position. Crafts and handicrafts are among the most prominent elements of the heritage that form part of the society’s culture in the country. She said that preserving and documenting these is “one of the priorities” to protect the elements of national identity. Dr. Dalia Alyahya, head of the handcraft sector at the Heritage Commission, highlighted the sector’s massive documentation projects in the studies and research department. This includes the launch of the encyclopedia of traditional crafts in the Kingdom, which provides much scientific research on traditional crafts in Saudi Arabia, dozens of photographs and approximately 30 films documenting traditional tools and practices of the craft. During the meeting, Alyahya spoke of the Heritage Committee’s eagerness to engage entrepreneurs in the completion of massive projects for the sector in collaboration with Saudi craftsmen. This includes implementing handmade and manufactured products inspired by Saudi heritage inscriptions and decorations, she said. According to Alyahya, as part of its efforts to promote Saudi craftsmen the commission developed the Saudi craft brand, through which the authority strives to assist those authorized to apply it to artisanal items that meet the quality requirements adopted in the field. She emphasized the commission’s desire to help Saudi craftsmen compete in the local market. She described the technical criteria implemented in the sector for handmade and manufactured heritage products. The participants discussed how to invest optimally in the initiative of craftsmen houses in various regions of Saudi Arabia, which is activating the heritage origin of urban heritage buildings and establishing training workshops for many well-known crafts and handicrafts.