LOS ANGELES: “Jurassic World Dominion” marks the finale of the new and original “Jurassic” trilogies, but fan excitement is far from extinct. “Dominion” sees a world where dinosaurs have escaped their cages and humans struggle to live alongside, and fight against, the prehistoric beasts. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “That’s what is kind of interesting about this film as far as a ‘Jurassic’ film goes. It’s unlike any of the previous films because we are able to take the action around the world,” said Hollywood star Chris Pratt, who plays the role of Owen Grady, a dinosaur researcher employed by the Jurassic World park in the film. “It’s not just on an island. We’re talking about dinosaurs ripping through cities,” he added.   While the film promises pulse-pounding action, perhaps more highly anticipated are the returning stars from the fan favorite 1993 classic. “What I love so much as a fan is that these characters are coming back, not just as cameos. They are central to the narrative. You are really spending time with Laura and Sam and Jeff and I was geeking out the whole time,” said Bryce Dallas Howard. Howard takes on the role of Claire Dearing, the park operations manager of Jurassic World, prior to the abandonment of the park in 2015 upon the escape of the terrifying Indominus Rex.   The legacy of the over $5 Billion “Jurassic” franchise is a lot for “Dominion” to live up to. The original “Jurassic Park” changed film history with its visual effects, laying the foundation for modern day CGI while still holding its own nearly 30 years later. However, “Jurassic World Dominion,” which is playing in theaters across Saudi Arabia and the UAE, is already off to a great start, and kicked off at the international box office with a mighty $55.4 million before it opens in the US on June 10. “Steven Spielberg, how he interpreted it and made these first couple of movies is special and then of course the technology happened to coincide with his movie and it changed movies forever,” said US actor Jeff Goldblum, adding “Colin Trevorrow, once he took over these three “World” movies has done a bang up job I think. So, we keep delivering what people seem to enjoy, and I think with this next one, it’s going to be a grand finale.”