NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United have announced a record-breaking deal for Middle East-based noon.com to become the club’s official shirt sleeve sponsor. The trademark yellow insignia of the Middle East’s leading online shopping company will be emblazoned across the club’s home, away and third shirts for the 2022/23 Premier League season. And Arab News understands the deal, worth around $9.2 million per season, is the biggest like-for-like agreement signed by the Magpies, bettering last season’s tie-up with Kayak, an American online travel agency. It’s understood Newcastle pocketed around $6.1 million last season. In a statement confirming the news, United said: “Newcastle United is delighted to confirm that noon.com has become the club’s official sleeve partner for the 2022/23 Premier League season. “Operating online and via its hugely popular app, noon.com is the region’s leading digital e-commerce platform for fashion, electronics, beauty, groceries, home and baby products. “The partnership will provide the club with new ways to engage with fans in the Middle East, with supporters in the region able to pre-order all 2022/23 Newcastle United kits on noon.com with the option of personalization. “The noon.com brand will be displayed on all team kits for the upcoming season, as well as having a presence on matchdays at St. James’ Park and across the club’s digital assets.” The deal represents a major step forward for United, whose new majority owners the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia have been keen to increase commercial revenues following nearly 15 years of stagnation in that department under previous custodian Mike Ashley, of sportswear retailer Sports Direct. The partnership puts Newcastle’s shirt sleeve sponsorship fee closer to other leading rivals in the Premier League, although it remains below the estimated $12 million earned by the likes of Manchester City and Manchester United. Ali Kafil-Hussain, chief of staff at noon.com, said: “We are extremely proud to become a key strategic partner of Newcastle United, one of the most famous clubs in world football. “We look forward to working with Newcastle United as a club with a strong sense of community and a vibrant history. He said noon.com “prioritizes creating a sense of belonging among our communities: Customers, sellers, business partners, and employees. We’re excited to work with the club to promote community spirit in the Middle East and beyond, and we look forward to future successes both on and off the field.” Dale Aitchison, head of commercial partnerships at Newcastle United, said that noon.com was a “hugely successful and influential brand in the Middle East and we are very pleased to team up to offer supporters in the region with new ways to engage with the club. “One way we can achieve that is by creating a fast, efficient and effective way for fans in the region to order official Newcastle United merchandise, and we are delighted fans can utilize noon.com to proudly wear their kits for the new season.” Newcastle United’s shirt for next season can be bought at noon.com in Saudi Arabia and the UAE.