BEIJING: Nine people have been arrested for a vicious attack on a group of women at a restaurant in China, police said Saturday, in a case that has sparked outrage over predatory sexual behavior.
Footage of the incident widely circulated online shows a man placing his hand on a woman’s back as she shares a meal with two companions at a barbecue restaurant in northern China’s Hebei province.
After the woman pushes him away, the man strikes her before others drag her outside and deal a barrage of blows as she lies on the ground. Another woman is also knocked to the floor. 第15秒 “把这女的怼路边操了”pic.twitter.com/U9VXh3w22D — 巴丢草 Badiucao (@badiucao) June 11, 2022 The video renewed an online debate about sexual harassment and gender-based violence in China where the conversation around women’s rights has grown in recent years despite pressure from a patriarchal society, Internet censorship and patchy legal support. Campaigners say domestic abuse remains pervasive and under-reported while prominent feminists also face regular police harassment and detention.
Web censors blocked keywords linked to the #MeToo movement after a wave of women accused university professors of sexual harassment in 2018.
Police in Tangshan city on Saturday said they had arrested nine people on suspicion of violent assault and “provoking trouble,” adding that “the case is being further investigated.” Jesus major trigger warning for violence. This made me cry I cannot imagine the pain and fear these women must have been feeling and there was SEVERAL other men in the restaurant who could see all of this happening and they did nothing. This is horrible https://t.co/kBLOnMS011 — Openly Black Alexis♃ (@OpenlyAlexis) June 11, 2022 Two women treated at hospital following the incident were “in stable condition and not in mortal danger,” while two others sustained minor injuries, authorities said Friday.
The attack generated hundreds of millions of comments on social media, where users slammed predatory behavior and urged authorities to crack down on violence against women.
“All of this could happen to me, could happen to any of us,” said one commenter in a post liked over 100,000 times.
“How is this sort of thing still happening in 2022?” wrote another. “Please give them criminal sentences, and don’t let any of them get away.”
Last year, a Chinese man was sentenced to death for murdering his ex-wife as she livestreamed on social media, in a case that shocked the nation. 