DUBAI: British Moroccan model Nora Attal turned 23 this week and the catwalk star treated her Instagram fans to a snapshot of her celebrations. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle To mark her special day, newly married Attal attended a concert by US rapper Megan Thee Stallion at the Primavera Sound Festival in Barcelona, Spain. Apart from the gig, the model shared snippets from her celebrations with her 61,000 Instagram followers, including photographs of a relaxed dinner and a get together with friends.  A post shared by Nora Maria Attal (@noraattal) The birthday celebrations come hot on the heels of a sentimental moment for Attal. Just last week, the catwalk star tied the knot with her longtime partner, UK-based photographer Victor Bastidas. The wedding took place against the backdrop of orange and palm trees in the presence of their loved ones in Ibiza, Spain. The nuptials were attended by Attal’s family and close friends, including her parents Charlie and Bouchra, her siblings, Bastidas’s family and fellow models Vittoria Ceretti, Blesnya Minher and Mona Tougaard. While Attal has not publicly announced her marriage to the cinematographer, she shared snippets from the wedding ceremony by way of Instagram Story reposts of videos and photos taken by the guests in attendance, who flew in from all over the world to attend the ceremony.  A post shared by Nora Maria Attal (@noraattal) Attal said “I do” wearing a creamy white slip dress with thin straps, lace details and a ruffled hemline from French label Lanvin. She accessorized the elegant look with a long, lace-embroidered veil. The couple announced their engagement in October 2020 by sharing a series of images of the proposal that took place on a beach in Formentera, an island in Spain. The pair worked together on multiple shoots, from magazine covers to brand deals.  A post shared by Nora Maria Attal (@noraattal) Their most recent collaboration was appearing in US label Ralph Lauren’s fashion campaign for Eid Al-Fitr, alongside Attal’s parents and two siblings. Attal was first discovered by Jonathan Anderson, founder of the JW Anderson label, and shot a campaign for the British fashion house in 2014 before she had even taken her first steps down a catwalk. She would go on to become a runway fixture. Based in London and signed to Viva Model Management, Attal has worked with a number of renowned designers and stylists. She has walked the runway for major fashion houses, including Chanel, Fendi, Burberry and Valentino, to name a few.