ABU DHABI: The Formula 1 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix 2021 won four awards at the ninth edition of the Middle East’s Sports Industry Awards recognizing the region’s best sporting moments throughout the year. The record-breaking 13th Abu Dhabi Grand Prix saw an epic title-deciding battle between Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton around the newly reconfigured Yas Marina Circuit. The season finale was watched by more than 108 million viewers around the world. The popularity of the 2021 event and wider Formula 1 season is being carried through into 2022 with the highest early demand for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix tickets to date. Celebrating the contribution from the whole Abu Dhabi community, Abu Dhabi Motorsports Management chief executive officer, Saif Al-Noaimi, said: “The awards extend to so many more parties than just Yas Marina Circuit, the event is the coming together of some of the region’s best and most innovative companies to deliver a remarkable moment in history.” The Formula 1 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix won gold for best sports event of the year, voted for by an independent panel of judges made up of industry experts in the Middle East, and for best fan engagement at a professional sports event, voted for by the fans. The season-ending grand prix was also awarded silver for best sports marketing campaign. “They are a recognition of partners, Etihad Airways and ADNOC (Abu Dhabi National Oil Co.), as well as the huge support from all stakeholders across the community, who support us throughout the year to deliver a world-class event. “As well as every other partner and supplier who make the grand prix the spectacle it’s become synonymous with, and of course, most importantly, the fans, without whom it would be nothing, thank you for making Formula 1 and specifically the Formula 1 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, the memorable event it is,” Al-Noaimi added. Amina Taher, vice president for marketing and sponsorships at Etihad Airways, the title partner of the event since 2009, said: “Congratulations to all parties involved with the Formula 1 Etihad Airways Grand Prix, the recognition from SPIA is another great testament to why we continue to support this event as title sponsor. “Now going into the 14th year, it’s a truly remarkable event that continues to push boundaries and bring the region and global F1 fans together.” Following the awards ceremony, Dr. Saif Sultan Al-Nasseri, director of group human capital at ADNOC, said: “As a longstanding partner of the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, we are delighted that this fast-paced and thrilling experience for motor-racing enthusiasts, sports fans, and the wider UAE community has been recognized at the Middle East Sports Industry Awards. “Last year’s truly historic finale produced an incredible amount of energy both on and off the track and we are greatly looking forward to partnering again with Abu Dhabi Motorsport and the Yas Marina Circuit at this year’s race as Abu Dhabi hosts the pinnacle event in the F1 race calendar.” Following the success of the 2021 edition, this year’s Abu Dhabi Grand Prix takes place from Nov. 17 to 20 at Yas Marina Circuit.