JEDDAH: Passengers taking high-powered speedboat journeys as part of Jeddah Season are leaving “satisfied and happy,” owner Ahmed Al-Ghamdi told Arab News. The so-called fireboats carry 12 passengers while performing maneuvers and drifts in adrenaline-filled 25 minute trips. The business at the Jeddah Yacht Club was the first to own fireboats in the Kingdom, Al-Ghamdi told Arab News. He added that the people of Jeddah love water activities, which led to his decision to import the high-powered vessels from Spain. “We know that the people in Jeddah love this kind of entertainment; people are fascinated and happy, and everyone loves it. There are passengers aged 10 to 95 years old, and we do tours that suit their ages,” he said. Before establishing his business, Al-Ghamdi visited the Moggaro factory in Spain, which specializes in aluminum yachts. He wanted to discover the latest trends in the motorboat industry, and soon fell in love with fireboats, also known as jetboats. “I went to Santiago Barga, owner of Moggaro in Spain; his factory is one of the best existing factories for me. We developed the idea, sat studying it for a while, worked hard to make the arrangements, and today we have the boats in Jeddah,” Al-Ghamdi said. Barga then visited the Kingdom to support his business partner and track how his bestselling jetboat, the Moggaro 700WJ, was operating on Jeddah’s waters. “Ahmed Al-Ghamdi and I met in Spain. He didn’t come as a normal client who usually stays for two days; he stayed for a week, which created a good relationship between us,” Barga said. While traveling on fireboats, passengers will experience exciting maneuvers, with video cameras recording the entire trip. “I want to make this experience a good one for my clients. So I take care of the details as each of them will have their disposable towel and a locker to have their belongings, and showers as well as changing rooms,” Al-Ghamdi said. He added that his passion for boats began in 1999, when started his first business in the industry. Al-Ghamdi said that in the future, he aims to localize all elements of his business.