 RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s logistics sector needs a combined government-private investment of over SR500 billion ($133 billion) by 2030, as the Kingdom aims to become a global logistic hub, said Sulaiman Al-Mazroua, CEO of the National Industrial Development and Logistics Program. During an exclusive interview with Arab News, Al-Mazroua said that upgrading the existing ports will help the Kingdom serve three continents: Asia, Africa, and Europe. He added that the Kingdom would provide the right environment and regulations to attract world transportation which will help the Kingdom emerge as one of the busiest logistics centers. “We need investments of SR500 billion until 2030. We are number one in the world when it comes to road connectivity. We have nine ports in Saudi and more than 27 airports. We have to smartly connect them through the right programs and regulations,” said Mazroua. He added, “We still need more upgrading to some of our facilities. We should upgrade some airports and ports.”   The vitality of SMEs Al-Mazroua added that small and medium enterprises in the Kingdom should develop innovative technological ideas to fill gaps in logistics. He noted that tapping into cutting-edge technologies is necessary to achieve the Kingdom’s goal of becoming an industrial powerhouse and a global logistics hub. “This area (technology) in logistics, specifically, is very attractive to small and medium businesses, and innovation in that area is extremely open. So with more SMEs coming in to fill gaps in logistics, you will need less time and cost to produce. And whenever there’s competition, innovation comes to play,” Al-Mazroua told Arab News. We will be capitalizing on our smart youth Suliman Al-Mazroua, CEO of the National Industrial Development and Logistics Program Prime movers of logistics He also noted that the Kingdom is capitalizing on the youth to revolutionize the sector, besides cooperating with private companies. “We will be capitalizing on our smart youth. The government will enable this logistic hub with infrastructure requirements. The private sector will also come with its technologies. We have seen Apple and Amazon come up with their technologies. We also have major Saudi companies in that field, bringing their technologies.” Strategic location for global logistics hub According to Al-Mazroua, the Kingdom’s geographical location is a crucial factor that could elevate the country’s spot on the logistics map in the future. It lies in a strategic location between the three continents, on the side of the Red Sea, where more than 13 percent of the world’s logistic traffic passes. Talking about the plans to transform the Kingdom into a top logistics hub, he said, “Privatization of the ports with free zones will attract the right investments, build the right regulations and policies for investors to come and get connected with the world through trade agreements. So that is just a summary of our plan through the Vision 2030 blueprint.”