RIYADH: Arab News, the region’s leading English language daily, added three new international media awards to its name at the 2022 WAN-IFRA Asian Media Awards, taking its total tally up to 83 since its relaunch in 2016. The latest awards included the WAN-IFRA Best in Newspaper Front Page Design award for the paper’s special coverage of the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks, and Best in Newspaper Infographics award for its feature on OceanX and NEOM. “We are incredibly proud of winning these recent awards. It’s hard to believe that we now have 83 design awards since our relaunch in 2018. It is an amazing achievement and it helps to reinforce our creative vision,” said Simon Khalil, Arab News’ creative director.  The paper also received an honorable mention in the Best Use of Print category for its coverage of Saudi National Day at the 2022 INMA Global Media Awards. For the coverage of the 20th anniversary of 9/11, Arab News asked journalists and editors from the Middle East, and those working there, to recount their memories of one of the darkest days in modern history. Meanwhile, the NEOM/Ocean X Spotlight was a figurative dive into the deep aquatic layers of what lies beneath the Red Sea.  “We want to inform and delight our readers around the world using creative design,” added Khalil. “Winning these awards helps raise the brand recognition of Arab News globally and each award inspires us to deliver even more creative work for our readers.” In 2016, Arab News announced a global expansion and digital transformation plan that saw it relaunch with an award-winning design as a digital-first, 24/7 platform. Arab News has since won numerous design and excellence awards, including the Digital Award of Excellence and the Print Award of Excellence at the 2022 Society for News Design.  Additionally, it pocketed an Award of Excellence for a Spotlight on UNESCO at the 2022 Asian Newspaper Design Awards. Over the years, Arab News has been honored by multiple international bodies including the Indigo Design Awards, the Newspaper Design Competition, the Creative Communication Awards, and the European Newspaper Awards. Last year, the Society of Publication Designers awarded Arab News a silver medal for Video Animation — Arabic Calligraphy and a merit award for Web Custom Feature Design — Arabic Calligraphy. Click here to see Arab News' awards and recognitions.