RIYADH: King Abdulaziz University and Nahdi Medical Company have partnered to train future Saudi pharmacists and further the role of youth in the economic development of the Kingdom. A memorandum of understanding signing ceremony took place at the King Abdulaziz University with Prof. Hani Asfour, dean of the faculty of pharmacy at KAU, and Samer Bokharee, chief human resources officer at Nahdi. Commenting on the partnership, Asfour said: “It is vital that as a community we acknowledge the integral role a pharmacist plays in providing therapeutic and advisory services to patients, especially amidst as challenging times as the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are pleased to be partnering with Nahdi Medical Company, who are investing in preparing the nation’s young men and women for the labor market, creating job opportunities, and raising the level of Saudization of this vital sector in line with the goals of Saudi Vision 2030,” he added. Commenting on the partnership, Bokharee said: “With mutual objectives, this cooperation aims to nurture young, ambitious Saudi pharmaceutical students at KAU and provide them an opportunity to develop their proficiencies through our training and recruitment programs. “We believe every pharmacist plays a pivotal role in our industry, given that pharmacies are the first touch point for most guests. We are equipping future pharmacists with the right set of skills and knowledge in our continuous pursuit to add beats to the lives of our guests. Nahdi remains committed to delivering intensive training workshops to students and has employed more than 600 Saudi students across the Kingdom,” he added. Bokharee said that the excellence program offered by Nahdi will provide future pharmacists with real-life career experiences and intensive training sessions at community pharmacies under the supervision of certified trainers. Applicants will have the chance to apply for full-time career opportunities at Nahdi once their training courses are completed. Postgraduates and academics from the college of pharmacy at KAU will be granted access to data from more than 1,100 pharmacies across the Kingdom, as well as real-time interaction with more than 5 million guests per year. Nahdi Medical Company is the largest retail pharmacy chain in Saudi Arabia and boasts a growing healthcare services platform. The company has partnered with more than 15 private and public universities across the Kingdom since 2008 in efforts directed toward training and research. The strategic deal between KAU and Nahdi underscores the spirit of industry-academic collaboration and the role of Saudi youth in the economic development of the Kingdom.