LONDON: One of the most successful hospitality companies in the Middle East has announced it will expand into Saudi Arabia by the end of the year. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Tashas Group, which was founded in 2005 by South Africans Natasha Sideris and her brother Savva, plans to bring its Flamingo Room concept to the heart of Riyadh by the fourth quarter. Curating the concept specially for the Kingdom’s market, the group will open the destination restaurant in a three-storey building inspired by Najd architecture in Diriyah, on the banks of Wadi Hanifah. “Flamingo Room is the ultimate expression of my South African roots and the epitome of old-school dining with a contemporary twist,” said Sideris, the group’s founder and CEO. “After its major success in Dubai, we think it is time to expand and widen our horizons across the region and hopefully globally,” she added. “We have been moving forward on the global hospitality scene; we have now reached the point where we are able to make significant strides in our expansion plans.” Sideris said that the up-and-coming neighborhood of Diriyah, with its blend of historical architecture and cutting-edge commercial offerings, is the ideal location. “I think there’s gap in the market, internationally and locally, for what Tashas Group offers with our concepts,” she said. “Ideally, we like to select places close to a city center with a residential hub so that we catch housewives, ladies who lunch, parents picking up kids from school, and businesspeople.” The group, which was founded in South Africa and operates out of Dubai in the UAE, has seven brands under its umbrella: tashas, Le Parc by tashas, Flamingo Room by tashas, Avli by tashas, Galaxy Bar, Collective Africa, and 1701. In addition to its expansion into Saudi Arabia, in the next six to 12 months the group plans to open five other locations, in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, South Africa and London. “While we started our business in South Africa, we are spearheading our growth from the UAE,” Sideris said. “I am immensely grateful to our team that is bringing my vision to life and for the opportunities that the region presents to expand our footprint as well as our concepts. “The support we have received from the community over the past eight years is amazing and I am happy to call Dubai my home.”