LONDON: The Washington Post on Tuesday suspended journalist Dave Weigel for one month without pay after he retweeted a post containing a sexist joke. Weigel, a prominent campaign reporter, faced heavy criticism from his colleagues after retweeting on Friday a post from YouTube personality Cam Harless, which read: “Every girl is bi. You just have to figure out if it’s polar or sexual.” The American journalist deleted the retweet and apologized, saying: “I just removed a retweet of an offensive joke. I apologize and did not mean to cause any harm.” However, Weigel was called out by his colleague Felicia Sonmez, a national political journalist at the Post, who quoted Weigel’s tweet with the caption: “Fantastic to work at a news outlet where retweets like this are allowed!” CNN also reported that Sonmez confronted Weigel in an internal company Slack channel, tagging him and asking, “I’m sorry but what is this?” His retweet of the joke sent “a confusing message about what the Post’s values are,” she added. The news outlet’s national editor Matea Gold wrote on the Slack channel: “I just want to assure all of you that The Post is committed to maintaining a respectful workplace for everyone. We do not tolerate demeaning language or actions.” However, other staff of the Post seemed to be split on whether Sonmez’s reaction was warranted. Jose A. Del Real, a reporter and features writer at the Post, said her cancellation campaign would do more harm than good. “Felicia, we all mess up from time to time. Engaging in repeated and targeted public harassment of a colleague is neither a good look nor is it particularly effective,” he wrote. “It turns the language of inclusivity into clout chasing and bullying. I don’t think this is appropriate.” To which Sonmez replied: “Jose, Dave’s retweet was indeed terrible and unacceptable. It was also public, and it’s important that all those who saw Dave’s tweet also see Washington Post reporters standing up for our newspaper’s values — one of which is that comments denigrating women will not be tolerated.” Sally Buzbee, executive editor of the Post, attempted on Sunday to rein in the newsroom by sending a memo that reminded staffers “to treat each other with respect and kindness both in the newsroom and online.” “The Washington Post is committed to an inclusive and respectful environment free of harassment, discrimination or bias of any sort,” Buzbee added. “When issues arise, please raise them with leadership or human resources and we will address them promptly and firmly.” Sonmez was not satisfied with the response, however, and said on Twitter shortly after that Buzbee’s note had provided “fodder for *more* harassment” against her.