NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United look set to beat Paris Saint-Germain and Borussia Dortmund to the signing of France youth international Hugo Ekitike. The Magpies are close to agreeing a package to bring the Reims forward to St. James’ Park, having seen their January attempts thwarted on the final day of the transfer window. However, that has not deterred the Newcastle hierarchy, led by co-owner Amanda Staveley and chief scout Steve Nickson, from pushing again this summer. And an early breakthrough looks close with a fee in the region of $31 million up front expected to be accepted by the Ligue 1 outfit. The deal will also come with add-ons — thought to be around $12 million — that will only be triggered, and paid, depending on Newcastle’s and Ekitike’s future success. Head coach Eddie Howe was desperate for the club to secure early triumphs in the transfer window, similar to how they did with England international Kieran Trippier in January. Landing Ekitike, widely regarded as one of French football’s future stars, would be quite a coup for Newcastle, especially given the competition they have faced in the race to secure his signature. Qatar-owned PSG had been eyeing a deal for the player and Dortmund were reportedly keen to sign him as a direct replacement for Manchester City bound Erling Haaland. Despite injury hampering his progress, Ekitike scored 10 goals in 25 outings last season. The player turned down the chance to join the Saudi Public Investment Fund-driven project in January, citing the speed at which the deal developed late in the window as the reason for his rejection. On the potential winter window move, the 19-year-old told L’Equipe: “I have a lot of respect for that big club (Newcastle United).” But he said the agreement process had been progressing very quickly. “The timing wasn’t right. It was better to stay here (with Reims), to play a full season, to establish myself,” Ekitike added. Howe is pushing to sign at least one striker, with goals his side’s main issue last season. Newcastle did sign Chris Wood from Burnley in January, but the player only returned a tally of two goals in 15 starts and is likely to just be used as a back-up option next season. Dwight Gayle will be allowed to leave the club this summer. As well as Ekitike, Howe wants to provide competition for the club’s No. 9 and last season’s top scorer Callum Wilson, with Everton’s Dominic Calvert-Lewin and Brentford frontman Ivan Toney on the radar domestically. Hot property Darwin Nunez, of Benfica, is also under consideration but competition to sign the player is fierce — and a number of Champions League clubs are understood to be ahead of Newcastle in the queue, making a deal unlikely. Calvert-Lewin and Toney are both thought to be valued in the $50 million bracket by their respective clubs.