RIYADH: The Saudi Sports for All Federation (SFA) is set to launch the second edition of its Summer Camps Program, after its success last year, to ensure schoolchildren keep fit and healthy during the holidays. The program will open for children aged between 6 and 18, offering a variety of activities for youth to engage in during their summer vacation. The activities will be centered around sports, entertainment, education and life skills. From July 1, boys and girls across various Saudi cities can participate in the Summer Camps Program, held on Sundays through Thursdays between 5 p.m. and 10 p.m. The program is a part of SFA’s ongoing Neighborhood Clubs Program, which was launched in January to provide events and challenges catered towards all ages and physical fitness levels. The Summer Camps Program will utilize the facilities of schools and community centers for the camp’s proceedings, held within 13 locations and across 11 cities. The SFA will launch the program in collaboration with the Ministry of Sport, the Ministry of Education and other participating federations. Throughout the program, campers will be able to try their hand at sports such as football, basketball, martial arts, volleyball, tennis, Zumba and billiards. The schedule also includes weekly challenges, talent competitions, recreational activities, as well as e-sports. Additionally, campers will develop a new life skill each week, including health and first aid, safety and self-defense, home management skills, arts and crafts and environmental awareness. These weekly development workshops will be overseen and assisted by coaches and experts from different departments, including the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, the Saudi Red Crescent Authority and several private sector health providers. The camp announcement comes after the SFA launched its Schools on the Move program earlier this month to help train teachers and provide them with the tools to transform schools into active hubs. The federation’s efforts are part of plans to raise physical activity levels in Saudi Arabia to 40 percent by 2030 to fulfill the Quality of Life Program objectives of the Vision 2030 reform plans. At the conclusion of the program on Aug. 18, an end of camp celebration will be held, with a slideshow recapping the summer’s moments, a certificate for all participants showcasing what campers learned throughout the summer and a bazaar, inviting small family businesses in the community to participate. More than 3,000 spots will be open for boys and girls in the Kingdom. For boys, the Summer Camps will take place at eight community centers and schools in the cities of Riyadh, Jeddah, Dhahran, Taif, Khamis Mushait, Jazan, Tabuk and Hafar Al-Batin. For girls, the Summer Camps will take place at five Neighborhood Club locations in Riyadh, Jeddah, Jubail, Unayzah and Hail.