Starbucks KSA has launched its first all-Saudi female-operated Drive-Thru store in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia, as part of its ongoing commitment to creating more work opportunities for Saudi women in line with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. The new all-female Drive-Thru only store located on the Coast Road is a significant step toward increasing its female workforce to 30 percent by the end of 2022, with plans to launch many more Drive Thru stores over the coming years in Saudi Arabia. As a long-term contributor to Saudi Arabia’s coffee culture through its Saudization drive, Starbucks, operated by Alshaya Group in the region, has focused its efforts on growing the representation of women in the workforce while encouraging a culture of diversity, equity and inclusion. Alshaya and Starbucks have a long history of creating and strengthening opportunities for women and fostering diversity across the organization and the markets it operates in. Managed by a team of all Saudi female partners, the Starbucks Drive-Thru only store will continue to deliver the “Starbucks Experience” that brings customers great coffee at their convenience. Partners will be responsible for all aspects of store operations, customer service, day-to-day administration, and brewing coffee for the customers. “This is an exciting time for our Saudi partners to lead our first all-female driven operation in the country as they set new benchmarks and progress in their career journey at Starbucks,” said Andy Holmes, president of Starbucks MENA at Alshaya Group. “Our first all-female Saudi partners-operated Drive-Thru store in the Kingdom is a significant step toward creating more opportunities for women as we continue to build on the local female talent and empower them in the workplace. As we continue to see a spike in more Saudi women joining the workforce in various sectors, we demonstrate active support to the Kingdom’s focus on empowering Saudi youth and highlighting the role of women by offering access to wider employment and career opportunities.” Today, women make up 20 percent of Starbucks KSA’s workforce. With the first all-women Starbucks Drive-Thru store launch, the company has further plans to expand its network in Saudi Arabia with more Saudi female partners.