DUBAI: Balenciaga has enlisted Bella Hadid for its fall 2022 campaign lensed by British artist Nadia Lee Cohen. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The part-Palestinian model stars in the first entry in the multi-part campaign series alongside a diverse cast including French musician Aya Nakamura and models Kit Butler, Zuo Chen, Abdou Diop, Inti Wang and Lina Zhang. The brand’s Nineties-inspired fall 2022 campaign is a continuation of the short film, “The Lost Tape,” released in December 2021 just ahead of fashion week.   The stylish ensemble appear against a minimal grey backdrop wearing nearly all of the most-talked about pieces from the Balenciaga creative director Demna’s (formerly known as Demna Gvasalia) new offering — such as the Excavator rainboot and the Le Cagole bag. Three-piece jeans that are simultaneously a miniskirt, pants and boots are also on display, as is a Crocs collab handbag that came out earlier this year. The Palestinian-Dutch catwalker took to Instagram to share a few behind-the-scenes images from her new modeling campaign. Her backstage images showed her having her hair touched up by Gary Gill between posing for the flashing cameras. Hadid made a runway appearance for the French house at its emotional fall 2022 show back in March. A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) The show addressed Russia’s attacks on Ukraine and Demna’s own personal experience as a refugee from his native country of Georgia. “The war in Ukraine has triggered the pain of a past trauma I have carried in me since 1993, when the same thing happened in my home country and I became a forever refugee,” he wrote in the show notes. “This show needs no explanation, it is a dedication to fearlessness, to resistance, and to the victory of love and peace.” Hadid, 25, traipsed through the snow wearing a monochrome ensemble and Y2K-inspired shield-like glasses. Balenciaga is among a wide spectrum of fashion brands to ask Hadid to front one of its campaigns. The California-raised model has a number of high-profile advertorials under her belt, including for Swarovski, Burberry, Michael Kors and Versace.