JEDDAH: Art Promenade, one of the nine zones of Jeddah Season, is now organizing Souk Al-Sabt every Saturday to allow artists and other creatives to showcase their work. Local businesses are urged to participate by selling their handcrafted goods, designs and even homemade food, allowing visitors to experience these products beyond the confines of the digital world. • Fashion designer Lujain Serrie, owner of creative.ell, and five young female artists, known as Waz Gallery, are grateful for the opportunity to showcase their work. • The Art Promenade is a beachfront avenue in Jeddah that features carnivals, live performances, and roaming acts, as well as art installations, restaurants, cafés, and a retail district. Interested individuals can apply through the Matloob platform, which lists opportunities available at all the Saudi Seasons events.   Lujain Serrie, a fashion designer and owner of creative.ell, created a sketchbook that works as a guide for aspiring designers, containing silhouettes and the names of fabrics. “As a fashion designer who creates her (own) products, Souk Al-Sabt has been good exposure for me to showcase my work, especially because it’s at the weekend and people come to visit the Art Promenade,” Serrie told Arab News. Wejdan Falata, a sales executive for Hobby World, joined Souk Al-Sabt to engage families in art and crafts.   “We sell art and crafts, but we decided to join the Saturday market because many people and kids don’t know that they have a passion for art and crafts, so they can come here and try pottery or paintings at affordable prices, and they can also get art supplies from us,” Falata said. Falata believes that Souk Al-Sabt is an opportunity to discover small businesses and engage families in various activities. “Everyone who passes by our booth has given us a positive reaction and shown an interest in arts and crafts. “I think the Art Promenade is suitable for this kind of activity (Souk Al-Sabt) because it’s on the beachfront and a lot of visitors come here to visit restaurants, shop, and watch live performances.”   A talented group of five young females, known as Waz Gallery, are showcasing their paintings on accessories such as wallets and handbags. “Each one of us has a different style in drawing, either abstract, anime, or realism, and we all worked together and made Waz Gallery. We participated in Jeddah Season, and prior to that in Riyadh Season,” said one of the artists. The Art Promenade is a beachfront avenue in Jeddah that features carnivals, live performances, and roaming acts, as well as art installations, restaurants, cafés, and a retail district. Souk Al-Sabt will take place every Saturday until the end of Jeddah Season. 