RIYADH: Kyrgyzstan Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Ulukbek Maripov has praised the King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center for its humanitarian work across the world. Maripov recently called on Dr. Abdullah Al-Rabeeah, supervisor general of KSrelief, and discussed issues of mutual interest. During the meeting, the two sides talked about the latest developments related to relief and humanitarian projects implemented in Kyrgyzstan and ways to further develop them. “The ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Kyrgyz Republic to Saudi Arabia Maripov met with Al-Rabeeah, during which the prospects of cooperation between the two countries in the areas of humanitarian assistance to the population, disaster relief, organization of charitable medical programs with the involvement of highly qualified specialists from Saudi Arabia and equipment for performing surgical operations to the citizens of the Kyrgyz Republic on a grant basis were discussed,” the Kyrgyz Embassy in Riyadh said. The ambassador praised the humanitarian work of KSrelief, which includes all countries without discrimination. “Maripov expressed gratitude to Al-Rabeeah for the projects previously implemented in Kyrgyzstan and highlighted the important humanitarian mission of the center, which is carried out in different parts of the world in partnership with international organizations,” the embassy said. The two sides agreed to develop mechanisms for cooperation in this area and maintain close contact to conduct joint coordinated work. Last month, Maripov met the head of the Saudi-Kyrgyz Parliamentary Friendship Committee at the Shoura Council, Ali bin Muhammad bin Yahya Al-Asiri, and other members of the committee. The parties noted that 2022 marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Kyrgyz Republic and Saudi Arabia and discussed the current state of bilateral cooperation, as well as areas of Kyrgyz-Saudi relations and inter-parliamentary relations. KSrelief since its establishment in 2015 has implemented more than 2,000 humanitarian projects in 84 countries with a value of nearly $6 billion, including food security, education, health, protection and nutrition. These projects have been carried out in partnership with 175 international organizations, including UN agencies. Yemen accounted for the biggest share of these schemes with 71 percent of the total assistance of the center through more than 700 humanitarian projects with a value of more than $4 billion.