JEDDAH: Seeing wild animals in the Jeddah Jungle on a bus with a large group is exciting, but a private tour will take the experience to another level. If you are into photography, opt for a private tour where you can rent a private jeep with wide windows and see the animals up close to take great shots. The jeep can easily accommodate four people. The private tour allows visitors to interact closely with tigers, lions, and ostriches. There is nothing between you and the animals but the car’s window, giving you a thrilling experience. The tour guide, who is also the driver, will share some interesting facts, too, making the trip informative yet fun. “I tried the private tour with my husband and my kid. The trip was unforgettable but it was scary because I’ve never been that close to animals and my two-year-old daughter was curious,” Hams Nabeel told Arab News. There are many activities for children in the zone and several places to get refreshments and food. There is a nice sitting area, in addition to an adventure zone, a children’s playground, an open theater, an archery space, a paintball area, karting and a workshop zone. “My daughter loved making food and feeding the farm animals like the llamas and the goats, and I think it’s important to engage the kids with animals because it’s an experience they need to do in order to grow mentally,” said Nabeel. In the bakery, kids can knead dough, play with flour and feel like real cooks by sporting a chef’s hat. “Children come to the bakery to make food and I teach them how to make the dough and spread it, and then they go and feed the farm animals,” Mohammed Matouq, Bakery Rio chef, said. “Kids enjoy this activity because they see something new, and when they come and see the variety of animals, they get excited.” Children can also enjoy the African dance show that takes place twice a day. The annual Jeddah Season festival aims to highlight the city’s rich heritage and culture through a total of 2,800 activities spread across nine zones.