RIYADH: Harrat Uwayrid, a Saudi nature reserve in AlUla, has joined a UNESCO program aimed at enhancing the relationship between people and their environments. The reserve in the north-west of the Kingdom is the second site to enter the cultural organization’s “Man and the Biosphere” program. Harrat Uwayrid is the largest of the five nature reserve in AlUla. It is home to 19 species of endangered animals, and 43 types of birds, including 8 bird of prey varieties. The reserve also has 55 kinds of rare plants. Documents filed about the reserve included a collection of data on wildlife present, natural and historical landmarks, as well as ancient human activity in the area, the Saudi Press Agency said.  Harrat Uwayrid is an outstanding area of natural beauty in #AlUla - offering unique biodiversity and cultural richness. We are proud to announce its admission into @UNESCO’s Man and the Biosphere programme pic.twitter.com/f4BUmp5ehE — الهيئة الملكية لمحافظة العلا (@RCU_SA) June 15, 2022 The inclusion of Harrat Uwayrid came during the UNESCO’s 34th meeting on Wednesday after the reserve met all required registration standards. Farasan Islands - described as a “habitat hotspot” and the first site in Saudi Arabia to be listed as a biosphere reserve in 2021 — were among 20 new locations in 21 countries registered to ensure biodiversity conservation, environmental education, research and sustainable development. Located in the Red Sea, the archipelago includes 90 of Jazan region’s 200 islands and islets with a total area of more than 600 square kilometers. According to the UNESCO, “The Man and the Biosphere Program is an intergovernmental scientific program that aims to establish a scientific basis for enhancing the relationship between people and their environments. It combines the natural and social sciences with a view to improving human livelihoods and safeguarding natural and managed ecosystems, thus promoting innovative approaches to economic development that are socially and culturally appropriate and environmentally sustainable.”