LONDON: UAE telecom giant e& (formerly known as Etisalat Group) on Thursday announced a new strategic partnership with Meta as it seeks to remodel itself as a tech company. “Our partnership with Meta (Facebook’s parent company) is in line with our ambitious goals of creating limitless possibilities built on connections, connectivity and collaboration,” CEO Hatem Dowidar said. “We are developing strong partnerships and identifying new growth opportunities as we advance our transformational journey for the benefit of our customer segments and shareholders. We look forward to a fruitful collaboration with Meta as we continue to create a more progressive business model.” The collaboration will enable e& to become a leading tech player driving innovation, enhancing organizational performance and nurturing its internal culture across its footprint, Dowidar said. As part of its strategy, the company will elevate its global positioning by zoning in on creative development and automation, immersive experiences and strategic partnerships. “An important element in our partnership with Meta is to design powerful, seamless digital experiences for all our customers so that they are empowered to advance their own digital transformation agenda with our support,” Dowidar added. “Our advanced 5G network will ensure that we provide a platform that combines multiple technologies to bring the internet to life and help our customers embrace a digital-first lifestyle more efficiently.” Internally, there will be a group-wide effort in driving a more productive work culture by creating customized learning paths and certifications, training and workshops, implementing robust internal communications plans, and heightening workplace collaboration, Dowidar said. Fares Akkad, Meta’s regional director for MENA, said: “At Meta, we’re focused on continuing to build innovative products and tools, so we can keep helping businesses and partners connect with people. “We are excited to work with e& to further grow their digital transformation journey and leverage Meta technologies to benefit their customer base.”