DUBAI: It has been a good UAE season — the best since the pre-Covid halcyon days of 2019. There have been many highlights, but for me the main one was that Dubai welcomed back the world — to horse racing and to Expo 2020.
Horses from 15 countries raced here during the Dubai World Cup Carnival, including some from smaller racing nations such as Norway and Greece. We had winners from Uruguay, the UK, the US and France plus a slew of winners in the Godolphin blue and from the UAE.
Prize money was up, for the Carnival at least, and we had a spectacular Dubai World Cup, where a stunning Japanese-trained five-timer was the main talking point, as well as a record-equaling fourth Dubai World Cup for Frankie Dettori on Country Grammer.
On the local scene, Tadhg O’Shea secured an unprecedented 10th jockeys’ championship title at the age of 40. His method of booking rides himself — rather than using an agent — means he deserves extra credit.
O’Shea’s main boss, Khalid Khalifa Al-Nabooda, will be crowned champion owner for a fifth time and it can be argued that few people have done more for the Arabian breed locally. The trainers’ championship goes to Bhupat Seemar, whose years of graft as assistant to his uncle Satish Seemar have now been rewarded by recognition in his own name. He and O’Shea celebrated their titles with a first Group 1 win, combining with Switzerland in the Dubai Golden Shaheen.
Another positive from the season has been the establishment of satellite yards; Antonio Cintra (three wins) and Pavel Vashchenko (two) being the main beneficiaries. Plenty of other trainers are now looking to follow suit and allowing them in will further strengthen racing here as well as bringing in some international flavor.
A further good development was the inaugural Dubai Breeze-up Sale, which saw 69 two-year-olds up for sale three days before the World Cup.
Top lot was a son of Curlin who sold for $680,000 to Mohammed Al Subousi, meaning he is likely to stay in the UAE. The sale, organized by Goffs, added a huge extra dimension and buzz to Dubai World Cup week and it will be fascinating to see how these young horses progress, many having joined their trainers already.
We have that and plenty more to look forward to over the summer months. British trainers of World Cup night runners are already considering targets back home, with Royal Ascot, which begins on June 14, the likely destination for many. We could see an intriguing rematch between Panthalassa and Lord North — which dead-heated in the Dubai Turf — in the Group 1 Prince of Wales’s Stakes, while A Case Of You, winner of the Al Quoz Sprint, may head to the Group 1 King’s Stand Stakes, as might Man Of Promise, which finished third in the Al Quoz.
Before that, we will have the chance to see if Godolphin’s Charlie Appleby can win the 2000 Guineas — a race which has so far eluded him — with Coroebus or Native Trail, while over in America Fawzi Nass’ G3 UAE Oaks winner, Shahama, is preparing for an audacious Kentucky Oaks bid on May 6.
Racing might be done in the UAE, but the season is just getting started everywhere else.