DUBAI: Yara Shahidi is set to star in a new Dior Forever campaign at the Salk Institute alongside “The Queen’s Gambit” actress Anya Taylor-Joy. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The news comes after the part-Middle Eastern star’s first makeup campaign as the face for Dior was released in January. The French luxury maison appointed the “Grown-ish” actress as a global brand ambassador in July of 2021, tapping the 21-year-old to be the face of its fashion and cosmetics lines. The new campaign is set to be released in January 2023 and is going to boast the foundation’s 24-hour wear, cleaner formula and skincare attributes. Directed by Swiss photographer and director Damien Krisl and lensed by fashion photographer Camilla Akrans, the forthcoming advertorial was shot at the Salk Institute, a Modernist research facility in La Jolla, San Diego, created by architect Louis Kahn and known for its brutalist design, bold lines and open spaces.   Shahidi took to her Instagram account to share a look at the upcoming ad campaign with her 6.9 million followers. “A beautiful day,” she captioned the image of her and fellow Dior brand ambassador Taylor-Joy walking toward the camera in Grecian-style gowns. Shahidi has held the Dior ambassadorship well, even before becoming a part of the luxury house’s family. The actress has worn Dior many times in the past. At the 2021 Met Gala, “In America: A Lexicon of Fashion,” Shahidi arrived wearing a heavily beaded tan Dior gown with a train veil to match. A few months before that, she turned heads at the 2021 Critics’ Choice Awards wearing a delicately embroidered top, worn beneath a bell-sleeved blouse and paired with a tulle skirt plucked from creative director Maria Grazia Chiuri’s tarot-themed Spring 2021 Dior Haute Couture collection. At the 2021 Emmy Awards in September, the US-Iranian star was a vision on the red carpet in an electric green off-the-shoulder gown courtesy of Dior. More recently, Shahidi attended the Dior Womenswear fall 2022 fashion show in Paris sporting black biker shorts, a short-caped trench coat, biker boots and two vivid green classic Dior bags: a micro Lady Dior and a small-sized Saddle.