JEDDAH: Over a dozen artists gathered on Tuesday at Jeddah’s Al-Marwa Lulu Hypermarket to honor the holy month of Ramadan through an Arabic calligraphy art exhibition. According to Moona Mohammed, an Indian art curator and the event’s organizer, the intention behind the exhibition was to highlight the importance of understanding the Holy Qur’an and disseminate its noble message. Speaking to Arab News, Mohammed said that the exhibition was inspired by the Quranic verse: “It is a blessed book that we have sent down to you (Prophet Muhammad), so that those possessed with minds might ponder its verses and remember.” “It is every Muslim’s duty to understand the teachings of the Qur’an, act upon its orders and teach them to other people,” she said, adding that it was essential to help people ponder Qur’anic verses rather than merely recite them. Mohammed believes that artists have the power to convey Qur’anic messages through their talent. “This event represents the participants’ willingness to begin Ramadan with deeds devoted to Allah. Through this art exhibition, we are trying to use our artistic talent to express our deep Islamic faith by depicting some of the wonderful verses inscribed in the Qur’an,” she said. The organizer carefully chose the verses and requested that the artists work on them. “I am excited to see these artists proudly displaying Qur’anic artwork for the love of the Almighty and in preparation for the month of Ramadan, in which the Muslims’ most sacred book was first revealed,” she said. Elham Mohammed Abdu, a Yemeni artist, said that the exhibition was an opportunity to explain some of the teachings of the Qur’an to those who know little about Islam. “I remember when one of my paintings was displayed at an event organized by the Saudi Art Association on the occasion of Saudi Founding Day. A British woman was amazed to learn that the writing on the Saudi flag reads ‘There is no God but Allah, and Muhammad is His messenger,’” Abdu said. “That lady told me that neither she nor her friends had any idea about what the writing on the Saudi flag meant.” Abdu said it was a good chance to explain to the woman the country’s pride in its Islamic roots. Maysa Mostafa, an Egyptian participant, said that several artists from different countries took part in the exhibition. “We have great artists from many countries, such as Saudi Arabia, India, Pakistan, Egypt and Yemen. They all came to celebrate Arabic calligraphy ahead of Ramadan,” she said. She added that the LuLu Hypermarket honored the participants with certificates of appreciation.