The Diriyah Gate Development Authority has distributed more than 235 tons of packaged dates from local farms in support of projects run by the King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center.
In early December, the DGDA and KSrelief signed a memorandum of understanding to establish a partnership to cooperate on joint initiatives related to the yearly distribution of date crops to bolster the Kingdom’s humanitarian and relief efforts locally and globally.
The authority’s partnership with the center’s program has identified several date farms in the governorate to increase crop output, support local farmers, and contribute to KSrelief initiatives.
Founded in 2015 by King Salman, KSrelief was established to promote Saudi Arabia’s humanitarian outreach to help those in need around the world. In recent years, the organization has focused its efforts on improving food security and local agricultural sectors globally.
Dates are an iconic symbol of Saudi identity and rooted in Arabian culture and hospitality — from entering a home or office to breaking fast at Ramadan. As the world’s third-largest producer of dates, Saudi Arabia harvests more than 800,000 metric tons each year from numerous varieties throughout the Kingdom.
As part of the DGDA’s support, more than 29,000 boxes of dates weighing 8 kilograms each were distributed from Diriyah’s farms to the center. In Diriyah, local farmers cultivate date crops in popular varieties such as khudri, saghai, and menifie and local kinds including sullaj, nobut saif, and barhi.
Through the authority’s strategic partnership with KSrelief, Diriyah remains committed to empowering the local community and serving its neighbors first. The relationship with KSrelief raises awareness of Diriyah’s role in Saudi Arabia’s humanitarian framework and its community actively participates in the center’s relief and humanitarian activities around the Kingdom and internationally.
On the DGDA’s role in the program, Sarah Al-Amri, assistant manager of the authority’s community engagement team, said: “It is an honor and privilege for the Diriyah community and local farmers to take part in this humanitarian exercise alongside KSrelief.
“As we approach the holy month of Ramadan, our efforts in providing over 235 tons of dates to those in need both locally and globally showcase the generosity and kindness of the people of Diriyah.
“Dates have been a staple in the Saudi diet for centuries and are a nutritious fruit that provides a quick source of energy. We hope that all those who receive the dates from Diriyah enjoy this authentic Saudi gift, from our blessed lands. This is a care package from our homes, our Diriyah,” she added.