RIYADH: The Aramco Saudi Ladies International has announced that it will be hosting its first ever Ladies Day on March 18 as part of the four-day $1 million tournament. The celebration of both women’s golf and inspiring Saudi females will form part of the Ladies European Tour event when it returns to Royal Greens Golf & Country Club, King Abdullah Economic City, March 17-20. All women attending the Ladies Day can look forward to a free day of entertainment on and off the course, with golf clinics, LET professional-led tuition and the opportunity to meet and chat with some of the biggest stars in the women’s game. “Women’s golf in Saudi Arabia is continuing to grow with interest and participation increasing steadily year on year,” Majed Al-Sorour, deputy chairman and CEO of Golf Saudi and the Saudi Golf Federation, said. “Using our flagship events, alongside our partners Aramco, we know we can really inspire and empower more women to experience the sport like never before as our journey to transform the sport in the Kingdom continues. “Our Ladies Day is open for all and gives an opportunity to either pick up a club for the first time with friends or simply enjoy watching and meeting the world’s biggest stars in the sport in a stunning location,” he added. Moroccan golf star Maha Haddioui, the first Arab woman to play on the Ladies European Tour, said: “It’s been amazing to witness more and more women get into golf in Saudi Arabia and for newcomers to the sport to message me on social media every time we play here. “I’m excited to be part of Ladies Day and to meet future golf fans and anyone wanting to come out and experience this amazing sport for the first time,” she added. Introductory golf coaching schools will be run throughout the day on the course’s driving range, where the competing players themselves will warm-up before taking to the course. The sessions will provide beginners tips and guidance for any women and girls wishing to get into the sport or simply learn more about it, and will be followed by lunch in the tournament’s fan zone, before chats and selfies with some of the world’s best female golfers. The day will end with the hosting of a “Ladies First Fashion Show” at the tournament’s Aramco Energy Zone following play finishing for the day.