DUBAI: Ukrainian-born actress Mila Kunis turned heads on the 94th Academy Awards red carpet and the stage during the annual gongs ceremony. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The “That ’70s Show” star arrived at the Dolby Theater in Los Angeles wearing a pastel pink silk gown from Zuhair Murad. The elegant creation was plucked from the Lebanese couturier’s spring 2022 collection. The 38-year-old, who made her mark in two long-running television comedies and earned a Golden Globe nomination for work on the big screen in “Black Swan,” wore a rose-colored silk dress that had a ruched body, belt, and a one-sided shoulder strap. She paired the gown with diamond jewelry from Messika.   Kunis was one of the presenters of the night, and she introduced US singer Reba McEntire’s “Somehow You Do” performance, from the film “Four Good Days,” that was nominated for the best song award. When presenting, Kunis did not mention her homeland of Ukraine by name but spoke about the devastation of recent global events, presumably referring to the eastern European country. She said: “Recent global events have left many of us feeling gutted yet when you witness the strength and dignity of those facing devastation, it’s impossible to not be moved by their resilience. “One cannot help but be in awe of those who find strength to keep fighting through unimaginable darkness,” she added. Following McEntire’s performance, the Oscars planned a moment of silence. The 2022 Oscars was also the first time Kunis and her husband, US actor Ashton Kutcher, had attended the awards ceremony together despite having been married since 2015. The couple recently launched a GoFundMe project to help Ukrainians in need amid Russia’s invasion of their country and have raised more than $30 million in two weeks. Meanwhile, Kunis was not the only one championing Arab design talent on Sunday evening. Tennis star Venus Williams opted for a custom white Elie Saab dress with a plunging neckline, while Ethiopian model Liya Kebede donned a dark maroon Alaia dress with a large water-drop shaped cut-out on the torso.   Elsewhere, Colombian actress and singer Carolina Gaitan wore a Tony Ward rose pink dress with a matching puffy jacket, while US actress Niecy Nash turned heads in a hot pink ruffled gown from Bahraini label Monsoori. As the night progressed other celebrities stunned in looks by Lebanese designers. Model Chrissy Teigen attended the renowned Vanity Fair Oscars after-party in a beautiful grey and silver Georges Hobeika dress that featured one strap, a torso cut-out, and a high leg slit. Puerto Rican model Joan Smalls also attended the after-party and wore an Elie Saab haute couture dress that featured crystals and feathers.