CAIRO: Egypt’s President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi arrived in Riyadh on Tuesday afternoon on an official visit. He will discuss bilateral relations, as well as regional and international issues of common concern, with King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. Osama Nugali, Saudi ambassador to Egypt, said the visit comes within the framework of the continuous consultations and growth of relations between the two brotherly countries. He added that the large number of agreements, memoranda of understanding and protocols between the two countries gives their relationship a strategic dimension, in addition to the historical, religious and Arab dimensions. Nugali noted that Saudi Arabia is the second-largest foreign investor in Egypt, and the latter came second among countries for which investment licenses were issued in the Kingdom in 2020. Sources in Egypt’s Foreign Ministry told Arab News that the visit will last a few hours. El-Sisi previously visited Kuwait, and is expected to visit Oman soon. Wissam Abdel Alim, a journalist specializing in Arab affairs at Egyptian newspaper Al-Ahram, told Arab News that he expects El-Sisi to discuss with Saudi leaders economic cooperation and the repercussions of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on global markets. Abdel Alim said El-Sisi may also address the need to take a united Arab position on Ethiopia’s construction of the Renaissance Dam, which will affect water supplies to Egypt and Sudan. The journalist added that the depth and strength of Saudi-Egyptian relations have translated into frequent visits and uninterrupted contact between officials from both countries. Two weeks ago, El-Sisi congratulated King Salman on the anniversary of Saudi Arabia’s Founding Day. And before the COVID-19 pandemic, there were many meetings between the two sides. On May 30, 2019, El-Sisi visited Saudi Arabia to participate in emergency Arab and Islamic summits at King Salman’s invitation. The crown prince visited Egypt on Nov. 26, 2018, and on April 14 that year, El-Sisi visited Saudi Arabia to participate in the 29th Arab Summit. On March 4 that year, a number of bilateral agreements were signed between the two countries in various fields during the crown prince’s visit to Egypt. On May 19, 2017, El-Sisi visited Saudi Arabia to participate in the Arab-Islamic-American Summit. On April 23 that year, he visited Saudi Arabia to discuss the importance of strengthening Arab cooperation and solidarity in the face of challenges facing the region. On March 29 that year, King Salman met with El-Sisi on the sidelines of the Arab Summit in Jordan.