NEW YORK: The UN condemned Sunday’s Houthi attacks on Saudi Arabia, with Spokesperson Stephane Dujarric saying such attacks on civilians and infrastructure are prohibited by international humanitarian law. “These actions damage prospects of peace and regional stability and are detrimental to the ongoing mediation efforts of our Special envoy Hans Grundberg,” Dujarric told reporters in New York on Monday. “We call upon all parties to exercise maximum restraint and avoid any further escalation,” he added. On Saturday night and Sunday, Yemen’s Iran-backed Houthi militia fired a barrage of missiles and drones strikes targeting a Saudi petroleum products distribution terminal in the southern Jizan region, a water desalination plant in Al-Shaqeeq, a power station in Dhahran Al-Janub, a gas station in Khamis Mushayt and an LNG facility in the Red Sea port of Yanbu. The Houthi attacks came just as a meeting in Oman was convened by the UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg with Houthi chief negotiator Mohammad Abdulsalam and Omani officials as part of the envoy’s efforts to address the dire humanitarian situation in Yemen, including a possible truce during the upcoming Holy month of Ramadan. Dujarric said that Grundberg, however, is “not discouraged in the least” and will continue to work toward “at least a cessation of hostilities or a truce during the upcoming month of Ramadan.” Dujarric added: “We strongly urge the parties to engage constructively and without precondition with Grundberg and his mediation efforts with the main aim of advancing the political process to reach a comprehensive negotiated settlement to end the conflict in Yemen.” The militia has continued to refuse to allow Grundberg to visit Sanaa. Dujarric declined to comment on whether there has been any progress toward facilitating the envoy’s visit there. The Houthi attacks also come one week ahead of GCC-sponsored peace talks between Yemeni factions. The Houthis have rejected invitations to attend these meetings. “Given the delicate security situation in these parts, once he’s in Sanaa we would announce it. But I have nothing to share with you at the moment,” Dujarric said.