Ziad bin Houmod Al-Musallam has been president and CEO of Advanced Electronics Co., a subsidiary of Saudi Arabian Military Industries, since March 2021. He has also been executive vice-president of SAMI’s Defense Electronics division since December 2021. AEC, founded in 1988 and headquartered in Riyadh, designs, manufactures and maintains advanced systems and products for the aerospace, communications, security and energy sectors, among others. Al-Musallam describes himself as “a seasoned corporate executive and technologist in the defense electronics and high-tech industry with an exceptional technical, operational and business track-record spanning a 30-year career.” As the leader of AEC, Al-Musallam is responsible for the company’s overall strategic direction and financial profitability and oversees the commercial, fiscal and operational activities of the organization. Al-Musallam has a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering and a master’s degree in electrical engineering from King Saud University in Riyadh. After starting his career in 1988 as a design engineer at the Ministry of Interior’s National Information Center, Al-Musallam joined AEC in 1991. Prior to his appointment as president and CEO, he held other key roles in AEC including senior vice-president of engineering and development, senior vice-president and general manager of the energy business unit, and executive vice-president of engineering and operations. During his tenure with AEC, Al-Musallam has, in his own words, “delivered tremendous organizational value to all stakeholders in terms of technology localization; developed extensive in-house knowledge and capability over a sustained period; and led the organization in profitably delivering highly complex systems design, engineering, integration, manufacturing and MRO programs for a multitude of customers in Saudi Arabia and in the region.” Alongside his executive positions, Al-Musallam sits on several prominent committees and councils. These include the Industrial Committee of the Riyadh Chamber of Commerce, the Executive Committee of the Saudi Space Commission, the Industrial Council of the Ministry of Industrial and Mineral Resources, the Saudi Council of Engineers and the Consulting Council of the Department of Computer Engineering at King Saud University.