DUBAI: French luxury label Dior took a few regional fashion bloggers and social media influencers on a weekend visit to Egypt to celebrate the brand’s fragrance Sauvage. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Iraqi Deema Al-Asadi, Egyptian Yasmine Zahran, London-born Zeynab El-Helw and Lebanese-Canadian actress Cynthia Samuel were welcomed on Friday with a lunch at the Marriott Mena House hotel, known for its views of the Pyramids of Giza.  A post shared by Zeynab (@zeynabelhelw) Dining tables were decorated with the label’s candles, colorful flowers and the fragrance Sauvage Elixir.  A post shared by Cynthia Samuel ♾ سينتيا صموئيل (@cynthiasam) Later, the influencers shared clips of their evening meal at the 9 Pyramids Lounge, located near Khufu, Khafre and Menkaure, the three giant structures built about 4,500 years ago. The event featured a fire show and light show focused on the pyramids.  A post shared by Yasmine Zahran (@yasmine.zahran) Zahran, wore a white Dior dress paired with a beige purse and black boots. Her hair was styled in a slick back bun. Al-Asadi championed a pencil skirt with a loose-fitting blouse. She topped her look with a green coat and black boots.  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) El-Helw opted for a floor-length dress with a high-neck top underneath and a fluffy coat. She accessorized her style with the brand’s Lady Dior bag in pink. Samuel wore a beige outfit that matched the desert setting. She chose a white blouse and a nude and black vest. She also championed bulky boots and a black cap.  A post shared by Zeynab (@zeynabelhelw) The style stars used Dior Beauty products during their visit. The influencers visited the pyramids on the second day of their visit, stopping to take photographs against the backdrop of the Sphinx.  A post shared by Cynthia Samuel سينتيا صموئيل (@cynthiasam) Leading archaeologist Zahi Hawass accompanied the group at the site. “What an honor to meet doctor Zahi Hawass,” wrote Al-Asadi on Instagram. Zahran voiced her excitement at returning to her homeland after being unable to visit during the COVID-19 pandemic. “So happy to be in Egypt with @diorbeauty,” she told her followers. By the end of her trip, Zahran wrote: “Thank you Dior Beauty for making this super special! Egypt, I love you and I can’t wait to be back again soon!”