MAKKAH: Officials at Jeddah’s King Abdulaziz International Airport on Thursday celebrated the arrival of Thai pilgrims following the resumption of direct flights between the two countries. It was not the first group of pilgrims to arrive from Thailand this Umrah season, but it was the first to arrive on a direct flight from Bangkok to Jeddah, a source told Arab News. Saudia previously suspended all direct flights to Thailand almost three decades ago after diplomatic ties between both countries were downgraded. The head of the National Hajj and Umrah Committee, Mazen Darrar, told Arab News: “We extend our sincere thanks and appreciation for our wise government's efforts in attracting pilgrims, and its keenness and constant interest and support for the government and private sectors, motivating them to increase the number of pilgrims.   “This helps achieve the goal of Vision 2030 by improving the package of services provided to pilgrims, which include all necessary means of comfort from their arrival, during their pilgrimage, and until their safe and sound return. “These efforts resulted in opening the door to Umrah for Muslims in Thailand and providing them with the opportunity to perform Umrah, despite the pandemic, as per the precautionary measures established by Saudi Arabia.” He also said their arrival “enriched” the entire Umrah system and ensured the recovery of commercial and economic movement in various fields.   Ahmed Bajafer, an investor in Umrah companies, said: “We are very pleased with the first direct flight from Bangkok to Jeddah via Saudia Airlines. Such an achievement reflects the great efforts made by the Saudi government and its tireless keenness to ensure the comfort of Muslims all over the world, and facilitate their arrival to perform Hajj and Umrah.” Bajafer said the direct flights would be an important economic boost for the two countries, facilitating movement, opening economic horizons, allowing expertise exchange, creating mutual trade benefits, and providing commercial platforms that enhanced the economic understanding between Thailand and Saudi Arabia.