ABU DHABI: The ADNOC Abu Dhabi Marathon will take place on Dec. 17, 2022, organizers Abu Dhabi Sports Council and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company announced, with the energy partner confirmed as official sponsor of the flagship event for the next three editions. ADSC and ADNOC are hoping to build on the success of the 2021 race, which attracted over 12,000 runners alongside a strong elite field. The two organizers have committed to increase event participation locally by supporting and encouraging new and existing runners, and say their long-term goal is to double the size of the UAE’s running community by 2025. This new approach will focus on creating a culture of participation and inclusivity, providing the community with more running events and opportunities throughout the year. Speaking at the Leaders Sport Business Summit in Abu Dhabi, Aref Al-Awani, general secretary of Abu Dhabi Sports Council, said: “We are pleased to announce our strategic partnership with the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company and are looking forward to supporting the success of the ADNOC Abu Dhabi Marathon.” The event has become “an inspiring platform for awareness, education and consolidation of the importance of sport in the daily life of our people and residents,” he added. “Last year’s elite race saw fierce competition from an incredible field of international talent. This year, we look forward to welcoming the stars of the sport back to Abu Dhabi and reinforcing the capital’s status as a world-class sporting destination.” ADNOC Group Human Capital Director Saif Al-Nasseri said the organization is proud to continue its association with the Abu Dhabi Marathon and ADSC. “As we look to build on the success of the past three races, we are committed to making the marathon accessible to a wider audience, providing support and training to runners of all abilities,” he said. Working in partnership, ADSC and ADNOC will deliver a series of community initiatives, including a year-round calendar of official training sessions, workshops and race preparation events, providing a structured program that caters for all levels, from first-time fun runners to competitive athletes.