RIYADH: Saudi Arabia took part in the opening session of the 20th Doha Forum 2022, in Qatar, which is being held under the theme “Transforming for a New Era.”
In his address at the event, Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan said: “The COVID-19 pandemic has reinforced the importance of international action.” It has shown that “no challenge can be faced alone, including climate, economic or other pandemic challenges, and these issues cannot be overcome without working with each other.”
He said there is an incomplete element of commitment and participation among countries in the development of the international agenda. “We must make sure that the agenda meets the needs of everyone and not just some. We need also to work with our partners on the international scene to be more effective in setting the international agenda.”
As for the Ukrainian crisis, Prince Faisal said that the best way to deal with this crisis is to promote dialogue between the two parties to reach a political solution and end the suffering of civilians.  Minister of Foreign Affairs H.H Prince @FaisalbinFarhan’s speech on setting Global Agenda for Multilateralism.#DohaForum2022 pic.twitter.com/zwJZmfEr3W — Foreign Ministry (@KSAmofaEN) March 26, 2022 The opening session was also attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister of Qatar Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani, US Senator and Chair of the US Senate Judiciary Committee Lindsey Graham, and the High Representative of the EU for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell.
On the sidelines of the forum, Prince Faisal met the Jordanian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates, Dr. Ayman Al-Safadi.
During the meeting, both sides discussed the well-established fraternal relations and ways to strengthen them in a number of areas of joint cooperation.
They also tackled a myriad of regional and international issues of common interest, the most important of which is bolstering joint work to establish security and stability in the Arab region and the Middle East.
Prince Faisal held talks with his Iraqi counterpart Fuad Hussein, where they discussed opportunities to enhance bilateral coordination in various fields, especially the political, security and economic, and ways to enhance bilateral efforts in combating terrorism and extremism.
They agreed to support everything that would contribute to the stability of the region and the preservation of international peace and security, in addition to exchanging views on many regional and international issues.
The Saudi minister also held similar talks with his Qatari and Omani counterparts. 