JEDDAH: Saudi Arabia has indicated its willingness to mediate between Russia and Ukraine as part of international efforts to resolve the conflict politically.
 
A Council of Ministers session chaired by King Salman at Al-Yamamah Palace in Riyadh on Tuesday affirmed the Kingdom’s support for any initiative that contributes to a de-escalation of the crisis. The council discussed two phone calls received by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman from Russian leader Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky. Among other topics, the council discussed the lifting of preventive measures aimed at combating the COVID-19 pandemic in the Kingdom. This follows the Kingdom’s success and progress in the national vaccination program and the high rates of immunization. The council was also briefed on a number of issues on its agenda and issued decisions including the approval of the Personal Status Law. The Personal Status Law will deal with provisions related to family matters and regulate provisions related to wills and inheritance. At the beginning of the session, King Salman briefed the council on his talks with King of Bahrain Hamad bin Isa Al-Khalifa, saying the discussions reflected the depth of relations between the two countries, as well as their interests in the regional and international developments. King Salman also briefed the council on two letters he received from presidents of Mali and Benin.
 
According to a statement to the Saudi Press Agency by Majid Al-Qasabi, the acting media minister, the meeting also highlighted the development, modernization, reforms and major projects that the Kingdom is undertaking as part of its Vision 2030 program. The Kingdom’s historical responsibility to confront extremism and terrorism was also discussed. The council reiterated Saudi Arabia’s focus on human rights, as well as efforts in this field that were highlighted at the 49th session of the UN Human Rights Council. These included the crown prince’s initiative to protect children in the online world and to confront threats they face on the Internet, as well as the issuance of a national policy to prevent child labor. The council also discussed the launch of the Kingdom’s scholarship program, a continuation of its efforts to develop the capabilities of its citizens and enhance their competitiveness locally and globally within the framework of Vision 2030.