Saudi Shoura Council Speaker Dr. Abdullah Al-Asheikh is leading a delegation of the council to the 144th General Assembly of the International Parliamentary Union on the Indonesian island of Bali. Hundreds of parliamentarians from all over the world will meet in person from March 20 to 24 on the theme of “Getting to zero: Mobilizing parliaments to act on climate change.”
The Saudi delegation will also attend the meetings of the IPU’s Governing Council.
Al-Asheikh said that the Kingdom’s participation is in line with the roles played by Saudi Arabia under the leadership of King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to consolidate world peace.
He drew attention to the Kingdom’s participation on all major international platforms, including its recent regional and international initiatives that contribute to drastically reducing the effect of gas emissions. Hundreds of parliamentarians from all over the world will meet in person from March 20 to 24 on the theme of ‘Getting to zero: Mobilizing parliaments to act on climate change.’ In this regard, he cited the crown prince’s Saudi Green Initiative and Middle East Green Initiative, as well as the Kingdom’s recent hosting of the Middle East Green Initiative Summit, which attracted a host of world leaders and decision-makers.
The Bali meetings are also scheduled to discuss ways to enhance information technology and communications as an auxiliary factor to the education sector on climate change.
According to the IPU statement, “its members will consider what parliamentary action needs to be taken to mitigate the effects of the climate emergency and to implement the Paris agreement. How can parliaments use the COVID-19 recovery period to accelerate the green transition? How can parliaments ensure that the needs of the most at-risk members of the population, including women and youth, are addressed as part of climate action?”
“The IPU will launch two new tools for parliamentarians during the assembly: A handbook on strengthening health security preparedness, in partnership with the World Health Organization, and the third Global Parliamentary Report on public engagement in the work of parliament, in partnership with the UN Development Programme,” the statement said.