RIYADH: The Muslim World League is hosting the Tanzania Forum for the Service of Revelations in cooperation with prominent African scholars and in coordination with the Zanzibar regional government. The three-day event, titled “The Qur’an and Sunnah are a way of life and development,” is the first of its kind in East Africa and includes presentations of the latest studies and research into the holy texts. It also features training courses and workshops in the areas of recitation, means and methods of memorizing the Holy Qur’an and Sunnah, introducing the Prophet’s guidance, and research into the scientific inimitability of the Qur’an. Inaugurated by Zanzibar President Hussein Ali Mwinyi, the event is also being attended by Sheikh Dr. Mohammed bin Abdul Karim Al-Issa, who is secretary-general of the MWL and chairman of the Association of Muslim Scholars. In his opening speech, Mwinyi said the gathering of scholars was of great importance in light of the global changes and day-to-day challenges that societies face. “This forum will give us an opportunity to remind each other of the importance of peace and goodwill,” he said. Mwinyi also highlighted the key role religious leaders and institutions have to play in condemning evil and confronting threats to nations, and urged governments to support them in achieving their goals. He called for the rejection of all acts of violence, discrimination, corruption, the ill-treatment of women and children, and everything that threatens peace, security and development. He concluded his speech by thanking the MWL and Muslim scholars in Tanzania, and said his government would provide all possible support to ensure the forum’s success and implement its recommendations. In his speech at the inauguration ceremony, Al-Issa expressed his happiness to be able to take part in the event. “Out of our firm belief in the place of the revelations in every Muslim’s heart, words and deeds, we are very keen to ensure that this important foundation is based on a correct understanding of the texts of the Qur’an and Sunnah,” he said. Al-Issa stressed the importance of teaching children the correct understanding of the texts, adding that learning their values at a young age helped to instill the principles of Islam and its lordly values in their hearts. “The significant difference lies in the combination of memorizing texts and reflecting on them,” he said, adding, “it is not possible for us to reflect upon them until we understand them correctly.” Al-Issa also drew attention to the fact that the MWL is constantly working to ensure that the Qur’an and Sunnah represent the personality of every Muslim with high moral values through a department specialized in serving the revelations. Several senior scholars also made speeches before the start of the various workshops and courses. The sessions addressed several topics, most notably the role of the Makkah document in highlighting the tolerance of Islam and spreading societal awareness of contemporary issues. They also emphasized the importance of a peaceful coexistence with other religions, especially in Tanzania.