RIYADH: The wives and relatives of foreign diplomats based in the Saudi capital recently celebrated International Women’s Day. The Wives of Heads of Mission Association organized a special event on Wednesday at the Embassy of India auditorium in Riyadh. Welcoming guests, association president, Farha Sayeed, the wife of the Indian ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Dr. Ausaf Sayeed, said: “Gender equality is an issue of both human dignity and respect and greater global prosperity. Sustainable development goals are not achievable if half of the world’s population remains excluded.” She lauded the Saudi leadership for its strong political resolve to empower women, raise the level of their economic participation, and build on their capacities and knowledge. “It is reassuring to see that Saudi women are now appointed as ministers, ambassadors, and cultural attaches,” she added. An interactive panel discussion was organized on the theme of this year’s International Women’s Day, “Gender Equality Today for a Sustainable Tomorrow.” It was moderated by the Italian envoy’s wife Tania Mehanna, with participation from Reema Al-Ruwaysan, the chief executive officer of Molhimah Group, and Muneera Al-Dossary, head of asset management and chief investment officer at HSBC Saudi Arabia. The event’s colorful cultural program included a show of costumes from Japan, India, Kazakhstan, Nigeria, the Philippines, Vietnam, and Sri Lanka, and a song and dance performance involving artists from France, India, Sri Lanka, and Guinea. An international art and craft exhibition was also held along with a bazaar, and display of world cuisines. The event was attended by a large number of diplomats, citizens, and members of the international community in Riyadh. Hoang Phuong, spouse of Vietnam Ambassador Vu Viet Dung, told Arab News: “We are very pleased to be part of this International Women’s Day event. It is a good get-together with spouses of diplomats of other countries as well as an opportunity for the diplomatic community to meet Saudi friends and members of the community and to honor all the women in the world on this occasion.” Habiba Hossain, wife of the Bangladeshi envoy to the Kingdom, Mohammad Javed Patwary, told Arab News: “I am glad to be part of such an enjoyable celebration. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, things have been closed, but thankfully everything is back to normal. I am feeling a lot of joy on this occasion with so much diversity, celebrating different types of culture, foods, and crafts.” International Women’s Day grew out of the labor movement to become an annual event recognized by the UN, and celebrates the cultural, political, and socioeconomic achievements of women. The seeds were planted in 1908, when 15,000 women marched through New York demanding shorter working hours, better pay, and the right to vote. International Women’s Day was first held in 1911, in Austria, Denmark, Germany, and Switzerland, and was made official in 1975 when the UN designated March 8 for annual celebrations.