DUBAI: The 2022 Green Carpet Fashion Awards took place in Los Angeles over the weekend, bringing together a number of A-listers for an intimate dinner. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Among the celebrities in attendance was model Elisa Sednaoui, who was joined by the likes of Heidi Klum and Karolina Kurkova at the star-studded event hosted by the founder of the fashion awards, Livia Firth. The model and humanitarian of Egyptian, Italian and French origin attended the event with her husband, Alexander Dellal, wearing an elegant black plunging jumpsuit by Italian designer Giorgio Armani. A post shared by Elisa Sednaoui Dellal (@elisasednaoui) Sednaoui took to Instagram to commemorate the event, as well as the “rare sighting” of her husband, whom she wed in 2014. “Yes — it has happened. I have forced him to pose! A rare sighting of my husband and it was for a good reason: Celebrating the mind blowing changemakers in the sustainability space, pushing fashion and activism to the next level,” she wrote to her 149,000 Instagram followers.   “Sustainability is the present and the future of fashion. We need to know what we choose to wear and how it was produced. It was inspiring to hear from these wonderful minds,” she added. The 34-year-old might be known for lending her face to prestigious brands such as Chanel and Roberto Cavalli, but she is more than just a model and actress. Sednaoui is a long-time advocate for environmental change and a general philanthropist, usually giving her efforts for her non-profit educational enterprise Funtasia, as a staunch advocate of education, and other charitable organizations. The GCFA reiterated the call for a sustainable transformation in the film and fashion industry. When fashion is discussed, there is a whole spectrum of issues that fall under its sway, from agriculture, slave labor and microplastics to deforestation. The GCFA wants to pull the fashion industry together for more accountability and change through the power of Hollywood. Throughout the evening, honors were given to people of note, such as designer Tom Ford, who was recognized for the “Tom Ford Plastic Innovation Prize,” and Rashad Robinson, the founder of Color of Change, for his social justice work.