RIYADH: The Saudi Data and AI Authority has released a data and artificial intelligence glossary of key technical terms in Arabic in an effort to promote language unity in the region’s technology industry. The rapid pace of change in the data and artificial intelligence industry means new methods and techniques are being discovered regularly. Even outside the Arab world, there is a lack of agreement over definitions for AI and Data science concepts. The SDAIA teamed up with the King Salman Global Academy for the Arabic Language to create the glossary, which can be used as a standard reference both locally and internationally. The rapid pace of change in the data and artificial intelligence industry means new methods and techniques are being discovered regularly. Even outside the Arab world, there is a lack of agreement over definitions for AI and Data science concepts. “The work of creating the glossary followed a methodology consisting of stages that started with collecting terms and definitions from reliable sources according to specific criteria, then translating the terms and definitions from English to Arabic. After that, we reviewed the technical accuracy of the definitions, and ensured the linguistic correctness of these terms and definitions,” Majid Al-Shehry, General Manager of the Studies department at SDAIA, told Arab News. Using simplified scientific language, the SDAIA hopes the glossary will become an essential reference for understanding common terms in the fields of data and AI. “This glossary will help data scientists, AI practitioners, researchers, technical writers, college students, media professionals and those interested in the field,” Al-Shehry added. In line with Saudi Arabia’s 2030 vision objectives, SDAIA, an authority mandated to drive the national data and AI agenda, is working to enrich the Arabic language by unifying concepts and terms, aiming to position Saudi as a global leader in the elite league of data-driven economies. SDAIA has highlighted some challenges facing the sector, such as the lack of specialized Arabic sources, translations agreed upon by experts and specialists, and the lack of agreed global standards in defining data and AI terms. “We are considering adding more terms, and we are open to collaborating with others to incorporate more languages,” Al-Shehry said. The glossary was published on the SDAIA website on March 19.