SOUTHAMPTON: Newcastle United head coach Eddie Howe hopes Chris Wood’s recent first goal for the club will be the first of many for the big New Zealander. Wood had gone eight games without a goal since signing for the Magpies in January, but broke his duck on Thursday with a header in the 2-1 win at Southampton. And while some questions had been raised about Wood’s performance since his $32.7million arrival, Howe stressed after the game that he had been pleased with Wood’s contribution since joining. “For him personally, (the goal) was hugely important. For me, much less so, as I have seen what he has done for the team,” said Howe. “He has been a huge player for us. He gives us an ability to build attacks in a different way. “He needed that goal. It was a good header from a difficult angle. You could see from his celebration that it meant a lot to him. And hopefully, it’s the first of many,” he continued. Midfielder Bruno Guimaraes — another January signing — also got off the mark against Southampton in his first start for the Magpies. The Brazilian produced an outrageous piece of skill to win the game at St Mary’s Stadium, with a backheeled volley from a Dan Burn knockdown in the second half. The goal, however, only tells half the story of what was an impressive full debut for the player. “He is a defensive midfielder, a number six, but a creative number six,” Howe said. “I haven’t seen much of that, a backheel goal. Goalscoring isn’t really something he’s known for. But he is creative, he can do the unexpected and that’s what he did.” Guimaraes got his chance to play when his fellow countryman Joelinton pulled out with a groin issue the day before the match. At the time, that was Howe’s only unexpected injury problem — although both Kieran Trippier and Callum Wilson are likely out with long-term injuries. But after a bruising encounter on the south coast, the squad may be further depleted. Center back Fabian Schar has an ongoing groin issue, but Howe is hopeful he will be able to play against Chelsea on Sunday. The head coach was unsure if Joelinton and star winger Allan Saint-Maximin will make Sunday’s game though. “(Joelinton) has also been managing a groin problem. We hope it isn’t going to keep him out too long, it was enough to see him miss (the Southampton) game. With the games we have coming up we wanted to protect him,” Howe said. “(Saint-Maximin) is ill,” he continued. “We hope that isn’t a long-term thing for him, but we do not know if that will keep him out (against) Chelsea or not.”