RIYADH: Kaswara Al-Khatib is a serial entrepreneur and the chairman of Webedia Arabia, a media production and distribution company with offices in Jeddah, Riyadh, Dubai, Beirut, Cairo and Belgrade. Al-Khatib was awarded a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering from Jeddah’s King Abdulaziz University and subsequently worked in the marketing division of the multinational Procter & Gamble. In April 2002, Al-Khatib went on to found FullStop, an independent communication agency established to fill a gap in the local ad industry, followed by Made in Saudi Films, a production and post-production house in 2009, both based in Jeddah. • Kaswara Al-Khatib is a serial entrepreneur and the chairman of Webedia Arabia. • In 2002, he went on to found FullStop, an independent communication agency established to fill a gap in the local ad industry, followed by Made in Saudi Films, a production and post-production house in 2009. • In June 2010, Al-Khatib launched UTURN Entertainment. This online entertainment network provides Saudis, particularly young people. • He has been a marketing and communications consultant for both Jeddah Season and Riyadh Season. Finally, in June 2010, Al-Khatib launched UTURN Entertainment. This online entertainment network provides Saudis, particularly young people, with creative, edgy, relevant and high-quality content that speaks directly to their social needs and aspirations. He built the company to become the leading Arabic multi-channel network with nearly 31 million followers and subscribers. In July 2018, UTURN merged with Webedia Group, a French digital media company, and Al-Khatib became chairman of the newly formed Webedia Arabia. Since then, the firm has, according to Al-Khatib, “proven to be a leading media and technology company effectively and efficiently connecting businesses with Middle East consumers through strategic, culturally-driven and creative solutions.” Al-Khatib has been a marketing and communications consultant for both Jeddah Season and Riyadh Season. He has received numerous awards, including 2014 World Entrepreneur of the Year by the auditing firm Ernst & Young and Saudi Arabia’s ‘No. 1 Entrepreneur’ by Forbes Middle East.