ABU DHABI: Music streaming platform Anghami has launched a new brand identity to mark the next phase in its growth. The updated look was unveiled at a party in Dubai hosted by Arab superstar Amr Diab, with whom the company recently signed a deal giving it exclusive streaming rights to his entire back catalog and future releases. The regional platform has been promoting its new identity across Egypt and the Gulf region with the line, “Share your voice, the world is listening.” To celebrate the rebrand and its first partnership as a publicly listed company, the launch campaign also included a projection of the new logo and an image of Diab on the Burj Khalifa in Dubai. The new identity was developed by London-based agency BigSmall in collaboration with Anghami’s in-house team. The logo features four colored lines, which the company said represent a “traveling voice.” “The flowing lines symbolize the wealth of creative Arabs who are out there painting a beautiful image of our Arab world and want to make some noise,” said Rana Najjar, Anghami’s head of creative. Elie Habib, the company’s co-founder and chief technology officer, said: “An identity is more than mere symbols, it is about the sounds we create in our community. “With our new logo, color scheme, typeface and tagline we are aiming to lead an evolution in how Arab youth connects with the world. Today, more than ever, we are ready to serve young Arab talent and help them to make more noise, because the world is listening.” As part of the rebranding, the company is rolling out its microphone feature to all Anghami Plus members enabling them to host their own “Live Radio.” “Users across the region have been waiting for the microphone feature in Live Radio. Today, they can all share their voice, and we can’t wait to see the content they will generate,” said Mohammed Ogaily, vice president for product. Anghami has a catalog of 72 million Arabic and international songs and podcasts, making it the market leader for streaming in the region with a 58 percent share.