DUBAI: US superstar Lady Gaga this week won best actress prize at the New York Film Critics Circle Awards for her role in the biographical crime drama “House of Gucci.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle To accept her prize, the Academy and Grammy award winner opted for Jordanian-Romanian footwear designer Amina Muaddi’s Yigit pumps to match her black gown by Taiwanese-Canadian couturier Jason Wu. The shoes, part of Muaddi’s winter 2022 collection, were satin black and featured an angled platform with a striking 150 mm heel.  A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) Gaga, whose blonde hair was styled in an updo, accessorized her look with earrings in platinum with diamonds and a Tiffany Victoria diamond bracelet from US luxury label Tiffany & Co. “Iconic ladies only,” Muaddi wrote, sharing images of the singer-turned-actress on Instagram. In the Ridley Scott-directed “House of Gucci,” Gaga plays Patrizia Reggiani, who marries into the renowned fashion dynatry. However, her ambition threatens the family legacy, triggering a spiral of betrayal, revenge and, ultimately, murder. Gaga has been tipped as a possible Oscar winner for the role.  A post shared by Lady Gaga (@ladygaga) In her 13-minute acceptance speech, Gaga said: “This really means the absolute world to me, and I am so honored to receive this award in my hometown, Manhattan, New York.” She also highlighted the effort she put in to playing the character. “Learning to speak in a Northern dialect felt like reading poetry to me. I spent hundreds of hours reading interviews aloud with this accent and just speaking constantly in this style, Patrizia never leaving me. Immersing myself in the glory, history of Italian art, religion, fashion and music.”  A post shared by Lady Gaga (@ladygaga) She added: “I accept this award on behalf of my Italian ancestors, and on behalf of my love of all things Italian. This extends the legacy of my great family.” Along with Adam Driver, Jared Leto and Salma Hayek, the film also stars Moroccan-British actor Youssef Kerkour, who plays the role of Iraqi-Turkish billionaire Nemir Kirdar. Muaddi’s brand — known for its signature flared heels — has garnered a loyal following of famous fans, including Kim Kardashian, Dua Lipa, Gigi Hadid, Kylie Jenner, Kendall Jenner and Hailey Baldwin Bieber.