DUBAI: The 2022 iHeartRadio Music Awards’ red carpet was packed with striking looks as the biggest stars across all genres of the industry descended upon Los Angeles’s Shrine Auditorium. They showed up wearing their most show-stopping get-ups to celebrate this year’s most-played artists and songs on the station and its app. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Of course, it wouldn’t be a red carpet without Zuhair Murad. The Lebanese designer who is known for his extravagant and glamorous couture creations was responsible for one of the most head-turning ensembles at the ceremony. US actress and singer Dove Cameron posed for photos wearing the opening look from the designer’s Spring 2022 haute couture collection.   The look in question was a black blazer dress with silk lapels that tied at the front. The mini-dress featured two cut-outs on either side of the midriff and pockets. The eye-catching creation was bedecked in tangles of multi-colored jewels, pearls and aged-gold chains that dangled over the shoulders, sleeves and hemline. While the look was styled with high-heel sandals on the runway, Cameron chose to pair the dress with black, pointed toe, knee-high boots. She also added a waist-cinching belt to accentuate her figure. Murad’s inspiration for the Spring 2022 couture collection were the Byronesque 18th century pirates, who roamed the high seas chasing chimeras of lost treasures. The Raas Balbek-born designer showcased the new offering in an intimate presentation at the ballroom of The Westin Paris hotel, which back in the day was the location of Yves Saint Laurent’s famous haute couture collections.   In a color palette dominated by the pallid red of canopies faded by sun and salt and the sand of beaches and deserts, the Lebanese designer’s pirate-inspired collection embodies the age of navigating the high seas. The eye-catching pieces included Murad-furnished ballgowns and jackets with old nautical navigation charts and constellation embroidery. Miniskirts were pleated with sun rays and evening dresses were dripped in sequins. Naturally, Murad wasn’t the only Arab designer we spotted at the 9th edition of the annual awards show. Former “Destiny’s Child” singer Kelly Rowland wore a sheer orange Georges Hobeika dress and Canadian singer Tenille Arts donned a strapless orange and pink gown with a high slit from Azzi and Osta.