RIYADH: A new group of 60 young people graduated Monday under the Saudi foreign ministry’s training program for cultural ambassadors that would promote the Kingdom’s achievements and peacemaking efforts abroad. The graduation ceremony of the Young Leaders Program for Global Communication was held on Monday evening by the Salam Project for Cultural Communication, under the patronage of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al-Saud. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Waleed Al-Khuraiji, and several officials and experts also attended the event. In his speech, Al-Khuraiji said the Kingdom’s foreign policy was aimed at promoting dialogue and peaceful coexistence in the region and globally at international forums. “The development and economic and political leaps witnessed by the Kingdom in light of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 makes it our duty to present to the world our civilizational achievements,” he said.   Al-Khuraiji added that Saudi Arabia’s young people, who make up a large proportion of the Kingdom’s population, could play a “vital and pivotal role” in carrying the nation’s message across the world, under the auspices of the Salam project and the YLP. Faisal bin Muammar, the general supervisor of the Salam project, said that the young people trained by the organization would participate in meetings of similar organizations in the international arena. This would allow them to develop their skills, to effectively reflect the Kingdom’s true image. Dr. Fahd Al-Sultan, the executive director of the Salam project, said the organization has aligned its work closely with the aims of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 plan to transform the country. To assist in this process, the project has conducted several studies based on monitoring and analyzing content produced about the Kingdom by research bodies, media groups, and various international institutions. Al-Sultan added that through these studies, the Salam project has been able to determine both positive and negative feedback about the Kingdom. This knowledge is assisting the project to train young Saudi men and women to effectively counter attacks launched periodically by some media organizations.