RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s King Salman left King Faisal Specialist Hospital in Riyadh after undergoing medical tests and having the battery of his heart pacemaker replaced, the Kingdom’s Royal Court said on Wednesday. State television aired a video clip of the king leaving the hospital with his son Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman close by. The king will rest for several days according to his treatment plan. King Salman, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, became ruler of the Kingdom in 2015. He underwent gallbladder surgery in 2020. Gulf leaders sent cables of congratulations to the monarch on Wednesday. pic.twitter.com/OGLryMcm9o — واس الأخبار الملكية (@spagov) March 16, 2022 Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah wished King Salman constant health and Saudi Arabia further progress and prosperity. King Salman also received similar cables from Kuwait’s crown prince and prime minister. UAE President Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Vice President Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, and crown prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan prayed God to grant King Salman good health and longevity, wishing the Kingdom and its people further progress, prosperity, security and peace under his leadership. Rulers of Sharjah, Ajman, Fujairah, Umm Al Qaiwain, and Ras Al Khaimaha sent similar cables. Oman’s Sultan Haitham bin Tarik also sent his wishes of good health to the Saudi monarch. King Salman received congratulatory messages from Bahrain’s King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa and Crown Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa. Bahrain’s crown prince also sent a cable to Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman. Qatar’s Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, Deputy Emir Sheikh Abdullah bin Hamad Al Thani, and prime minister Sheikh Khalid bin Khalifa bin Abdulaziz Al Thani sent similar cables. Crown prince Mohammed bin Salman received a phone call on Wednesday from Egyptian president Abdel Fattah El-Sis, during which he was reassured about the health of King Salman. 