JEDDAH: Grammy-winning group the Black Eyed Peas and R&B megastar Chris Brown will perform on March 27 at this year’s Jeddah Corniche Circuit post-race concert to close the second Formula One race weekend for the Saudi Grand Prix. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The American superstars will perform alongside previously announced headline artists, including Swedish DJ Axwell, American rapper Wiz Khalifa, Dutch DJ and producer R3HAB, British band Clean Bandit and Egyptian megastar Mohamed Ramadan. With this gold-plated lineup, the weekend is set to be a blast for Jeddah’s music fans. The concert will again take place on the Main Stage of the Jeddah Corniche Circuit, F1’s newest, longest and fastest street circuit according to the Saudi Motorsport Co. Over the past 25 years, the iconic Los Angeles trio Black Eyed Peas — will.i.am, apl.de.ap, and Taboo — have earned six Grammy Awards and sold 35 million albums and 120 million singles across seminal releases such as “Elephunk”, “The E.N.D.”, and more. The group is one of the era’s biggest acts, whose biggest songs include the global mega-hits “I Gotta Feeling” and “Where Is The Love?”. They emerged as the second best-selling artists of all-time for downloaded tracks and landed on Billboard’s “Hot 100 Artists of the Decade.” In 2011, they dazzled the world with a landmark performance at the Super Bowl XLV Halftime Show. Their eighth studio album, “TRANSLATION,” achieved staggering international success after its release in 2020. Featuring major collaborations with artists such as J Balvin, Ozuna, Maluma, Shakira, Nicky Jam, and Tyga, the long-player garnered eight nominations at the Billboard Latin Music Awards. Including “Crossover Artist of the Year” and “Hot Latin Song of the Year” for “RITMO” and a nomination at the 2021 Latin American Music Awards for “Favourite Artists – Crossover.”  R&B star Chris Brown took the world by storm in 2005 with his self-titled debut going multi-platinum and lead single “Run it!” topping the charts in the US. Since then, he has become a global music icon via a series of international hit singles, including “With You”, “Forever,” and “Kiss Kiss” In 2011, his fourth album “F.A.M.E” won a Grammy for Best R&B album, leading with hit singles “Yeah x3” and “Beautiful People.” Most recently, he is supporting new and up and coming artists, co-writing and featuring on the 2021 single “Come Through” by fellow R&B star H.E.R. Sunday night will guarantee a world-class weekend of live racing action and entertainment for all fans attending the Saudi Grand Prix.