LONDON: CNN Arabic is launching a new multi-platform editorial and training initiative which will focus on telling the stories of Arab women who are creating an impact in their local communities. Her Story, or Hikayatoha in Arabic, will go live on March 8 to coincide with International Women’s Day. Featured as a dedicated page on CNN Arabic’s site, the initiative will shed light on the untold stories of Arab women, giving them a high-profile platform to speak and express their thoughts and opinions. In addition to the editorial feature, CNN Arabic is also launching a special training program designed for young women starting their careers in journalism, content production and storytelling. “As part of CNN Arabic’s 20th anniversary, we have made a commitment to empowering young Arab women,” said Caroline Faraj, vice president and editor-in-chief of CNN Arabic. “Her Story is a new way of helping to not only raise the voices of the many remarkable Arab women out there, but also equip the new generation with the means to make themselves heard. We’re really excited to be starting this initiative.” Every month, CNN Arabic will select an initiative from an Arab country, deliver virtual training to selected individuals, and then provide the space for participants to pitch their ideas for possible stories. Winning ideas will be commissioned, with the results published on the Her Story page. In addition, a monthly original series entitled Girls’ Stories, or Hikayat Banat in Arabic, will profile young women making their mark on culture, art, and Arab identity. “Stories of women in the Arab world are so vital and intrinsic to its culture. They are also some of the most vibrant, compelling, and important elements of the Arab narrative,” said Samya Ayish, CNN Arabic journalist and producer, who will be the editor of Her Story. “Her Story will bring all of that to life and provide a new place to celebrate their contributions to the Arab world and beyond. Through the training program, we aim to make a difference in the lives of storytellers in the Arab world, so that they are able in the future to tell their own stories,” she added. The page will have a selection of interviews and op-ed articles from Arab women who are leaders and changemakers in their communities.