DUBAI: The UAE and Japan foreign ministers agreed to continue promoting cooperation in various fields under the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership Initiative and maintain energy-related relations with a stable supply of crude oil. The agreement was reached on March 20 during a meeting in the UAE between Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi and Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, the minister for foreign affairs and international cooperation. Hayashi is visiting the UAE on the second and last leg of a short tour to the Middle East that started in Turkey a day earlier. Hayashi is scheduled to arrive back in Tokyo on Monday. In the meeting, Hayashi congratulated the UAE on the successful hosting of the Dubai 2022 Expo and highlighted the importance of this year, which marks the 50th anniversary of establishing diplomatic relations between Japan and the UAE. According to the Foreign Ministry in Tokyo, Sheikh Abdullah thanked Japan for participating in the Dubai Expo and said that he was pleased that the relationship between the two countries advanced beyond the traditional energy fields, expanding to a wide range of fields, including renewable energy, infrastructure and space. Both ministers exchanged frank opinions on this matter and confirmed that they would continue to cooperate closely in international efforts. They also agreed to work closely through the Disarmament and Non-Proliferation Initiative. Minister Hayashi expressed his appreciation for the stable supply of crude oil from the UAE and the participation of Japanese companies in crude oil development projects in the UAE. He also expressed concern about soaring oil prices while asking the UAE to contribute to stabilizing the global oil market by further supplying crude oil and securing production capacity as a key member of OPEC Plus. In response, Sheikh Abdullah said the UAE’s relationship with Japan, a strategic partner, is unwavering and that he would like to continue working together. In addition, Hayashi condemned the attack on Abu Dhabi by Yemen’s Houthis militants and conveyed his condolences to the victims and their families. The two sides also exchanged views on the situation in the Middle East, including Iran and Yemen, and the situation in east Asia, including China and North Korea, and confirmed that they would continue to work closely together.