RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Center launched a project to distribute Ramadan food baskets, as part of the Ramadan Eta’am Initiative 2022, in the capital of Kosovo, Pristina, on Monday.
The inauguration was attended by Kosovo’s Mufti Naim Tërnava, the director of social affairs in Pristina, the head of the Islamic Affairs and Aid Department at the Kingdom’s Embassy in Albania, Hamad Al-Sayari, and the KSrelief team.
The project aims to distribute 2,056 food baskets, which weigh 59 kilos each and include basic food necessities. The project aims to benefit 10,280 families, or 51,400 individuals, in Pristina, Prizren, Peja, Gjilan, Mitrovica, Ferizaj, Skenderaj, Lipjan, and Fushë Kosova.
Earlier this week, KSrelief launched the Eta’am Initiative, providing 156,993 food baskets to countries facing adversity.
Dr. Abdullah Al-Rabeeah, KSrelief’s supervisor general, announced the initiative at KSrelief’s headquarters in Riyadh. The inauguration was attended by Kosovo’s Mufti Naim Tërnava, the director of social affairs in Pristina, the head of the Islamic Affairs and Aid Department at the Kingdom’s Embassy in Albania, Hamad Al-Sayari, and the KSrelief team. Al-Rabeeah explained that the initiative also aims to improve the living conditions of the neediest groups in several countries during Ramadan.
The food baskets come with a value of $10 million, weighing 8,430 tons. The initiative is expected to aid approximately 901,463 individuals in total.
Al-Rabeeah stated that Saudi Arabia, since its unification at the hands of the founding King Abdulaziz bin Abdulrahman Al-Saud, has taken up the mantle of humanitarian and charitable work around the world, in accordance with the values of Islam of giving to and helping those in need.
Since KSrelief’s founding in May 2015, Al-Rabeeah said it has launched more than 1,920 projects in vital sectors across 79 countries, spending more than $5.6 billion in the process.
Al-Rabeeah explained in his speech that the Eta’am Initiative comes as an extension of the continuous humanitarian assistance provided by Saudi Arabia to other nations under the leadership of King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
KSrelief has 653 projects dedicated solely to food security aiding 61 countries, including Yemen, Syria and Palestine.
Al-Rabiah stressed the Kingdom’s keenness to continuously contribute to international humanitarian efforts, as he explained that the Kingdom ranked third in the world in providing humanitarian aid in 2021.
KSrelief’s mission statement to manage and coordinate international relief efforts has continued with its constant initiatives that extend beyond food security, such as water, sanitization, hygiene, education, and many more.