DUBAI: Italian fashion designer and Burberry’s Chief Creative Officer Riccardo Tisci presented this week the British luxury label’s autumn/winter 2022 collection, which celebrated British culture with a star-studded show. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle This was the fashion house’s first in-person catwalk in two years, following digital presentations in past seasons due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The runway featured Palestinian-Dutch supermodels Gigi and Bella Hadid as they walked alongside Russian catwalk star Irina Shayk.   The show saw the models wear trench coats with chain details, country-style outerwear, bodysuits, checkered skirts and twin sets paired with tight, high platform boots. The brand’s classic check print in camel, red and black appeared on pleated dresses and skirts, while Tisci used Burberry’s equestrian knight design and oak leaf crest as prints or embellishments. For the evening, Tisci reimagined a trench coat as a strapless gown and offered frocks trimmed with feathers and black velvet shirts worn with long skirts and tuxedo jackets. Shiny metallics decorated some of the designs.  A post shared by Burberry (@burberry) Gigi appeared with platinum blonde hair pulled back into a tight bun, matching her unpigmented brows. Bella and Shayk also donned sleek up-dos. Celebrities including US actor Adam Driver and British supermodels Kate Moss and Naomi Campbell were in attendance to see the label’s most recent designs. Tisci said he mixed different vibes for this line, playing with the brand’s classic camel trench looks.  A post shared by Burberry (@burberry) “It was important for me to explore what it means to belong, how our roots influence our identity and how the power of community and togetherness is what truly brings meaning to the world,” he said in a statement, also paying homage to London. “The collection embodies an intangible essence that is Britishness, a unique fusion of honoring the beauty of the past, whilst also remaining focused on the future with thankfulness, hope and love,” he added. Both Hadid sisters announced this week on Instagram that they will be donating their fashion month earnings toward relief efforts in Ukraine, which was invaded by Russian troops on Feb. 24. They will also be donating any financial support they received during this fashion month to support relief efforts in Palestine.