JEDDAH: Award-winning DJs Axwell and R3hab will headline post-qualifying and post-race concerts during the second Formula 1 race weekend to be staged in Jeddah in less than four months.
The Saudi Motorsport Company, promoter of the Formula 1 STC Saudi Arabian Grand Prix, said on Tuesday that the March 26-27 concerts will take place on the main stage of the Jeddah Corniche Circuit, the world’s newest, longest and fastest street circuit. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle A post shared by Saudi Arabian GP (@saudiarabiangp) Lewis Hamilton will be aiming to repeat his victory from last December in the face of stiff competition from world champion Max Verstappen and a field of talented contenders, including George Russell, Sergio Perez, Charles Leclerc and Carlos Sainz.
Motorsports fans will also be able to see the Formula 2 and Porsche Sprint Challenge Middle East support series, while entertainment activities, fan festivals and live concerts will also take place across the circuit and Formula 1 fanzone all weekend. Axwell is a four-time Grammy-nominated Swedish producer and member of the electronic music group Swedish House Mafia. His breakthrough releases “Feel The Vibe” in 2004 and “Watch The Sunrise” in 2005, via his own imprint Axtone Records, helped shape electronic music. A post shared by Saudi Arabian GP (@saudiarabiangp) In 2010, he joined fellow Swedish producers Sebastian Ingrosso and Steve Angello to form Swedish House Mafia. Their debut, “One,” was a worldwide hit and a defining moment in electronic music’s global rise.
Multiplatinum DJ and producer Fadil El-Ghoul, better known as R3hab, has been a leading force in dance music for the past 15 years. His breakthrough remixes for Rihanna, Drake, Taylor Swift and Calvin Harris have been accompanied by anthems such as “All Around The World (La La La)” and “Lullaby.”
He has collaborated with Ava Max, Zayn, Luis Fonsi and Sean Paul, and has collected more than 5 billion streams. In 2016, R3hab founded his own label, which has passed 4 billion streams across various platforms. Tickets are now on sale at Saudiarabiangp.com.