RIYADH: Arab officials on Tuesday called for action to make cities more “flexible” places by 2030 so that they can better tackle current and future challenges, a goal that they described as “crucial.” It came during the 19th general conference of the Arab Towns Organization, which was hosted by Riyadh. In their final statement on Tuesday, the participants highlighted the importance of supporting the work of crisis and disaster management teams in local administrations. They also stressed the need for the organization and its institutions to focus on youth, enhance the role young people and help them to achieve their ambitions. They added that volunteering is an important part of the societal fabric of cities and plays a part in sustainable development.   Prince Faisal bin Abdulaziz bin Ayyaf, the mayor of Riyadh, said: “Despite the different challenges among cities, we all share the desire to achieve comprehensive and sustainable urban development that contributes to achieving the population’s aspirations.” The final statement was signed by representatives of 20 Arab countries. It also highlighted the importance of electronic transformation, building smart cities, and achieving social justice and equality. In addition, it called for the enhanced participation of persons with disabilities in society and employment, the protection of the environment as a collective responsibility, and cooperation and relationship building among Arab cities. The participants recommended the development of partnerships that support innovation and creativity, rehabilitation projects for cities, and placing cities and urban centers at the forefront of development processes.   “The global urban agenda of the United Nations emphasizes the importance of taking into account the design, implementation and operation of cities in a flexible manner that reflects existing and future challenges resulting from the effects of climate change,” said Faisal Al-Fadl, an urban-planning expert and secretary general of the Saudi Green Building Forum. He noted that Riyadh is following “a green approach, mainly by increasing the vegetation cover and reducing heat islands in residential and commercial neighborhoods, and by offering investment projects that are friendly to humans and the environment, which raises the quality of life for the population and fulfills the commitments, ambitions and initiatives of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.” Al-Fadl praised Saudi Arabia’s adoption of environmentally friendly best practices and methodologies supported by digitization. 