CHENNAI: With its story of social ostracism, romance and sacrifice in early 1800s London, “Bridgerton” became one of television’s most popular series after making its debut on Netflix in December 2020. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Season two, which recently came out, is set to equal the popularity of the original. Set on the grand estates of lords and viscounts, the eight-episode series focuses on the upper echelons of social life, with little place for commoners or the downtrodden. Series creator Chris Van Dusen appears almost afraid that any such inclusion would spoil his rich and colorful tapestry, with women in exquisite gowns and men in smart attire. Some viewers, however, might get a little bored watching women obsessing over marriage and getting rich with suitable “catches.” Season two follows the Sharma sisters and their mother after they sail from India to England to try their luck in the marriage market. The first episode opens with a grand ball, where young men and women try to find their partners in accordance with the social etiquette of the time. Based on the best-selling book “The Viscount Who Loved Me” by Julia Quinn, the new season focuses on the eldest Bridgerton sibling, Viscount Anthony (Jonathan Bailey), as he embarks on a search for a wife. He considers Edwina Sharma (Charithra Chandran) perfect for the role. But her elder half-sister Kate (Simone Ashley) dislikes him and views his pragmatic approach to marriage with disdain. The two collide, but the sparks quickly transform into something very different. However, Kate has sworn to see Edwina happily married before she and her mother return to India. Trying to suppress her love for Anthony, she finds life increasingly difficult. While Anthony is bound by tradition, duty and loyalty, Kate appears weighed down by guilt over her romantic feelings for him. There is little surprise in how this triangular love story ends, opening the door for many seasons of “Bridgerton.”