DUBAI: Oscar-winning actress Sandra Bullock stepped out to the premiere of her newest film “The Lost City” with her younger sister Gesine Bullock-Prado at the Regency Village Theatre in Los Angeles this week donning a striking pink dress from Elie Saab. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The extravagant ombre gown was plucked from the Lebanese designer’s Mediterranean-inspired spring 2022 couture collection, which he showcased in Paris in January. The attention-grabbing gowns from the 55-piece offering were no doubt created to make an impression on the red carpet, and Bullock’s look was a sartorial testament to that. The three-time SAG Award-winner was a vision in the plunging gown completely crafted from bougainvillea pink tulle, creating a frothy illusion. The dress was bedecked with shiny embellishments including hand-embroidered rhinestones, jewels and crystals and featured a high slit and pockets.   The Virginia-born actress paired the look, put together with the help of red-carpet stylist Elizabeth Stewart, with black thigh-high leather boots and a matching cropped black blazer, toning down the extravagance of the dress and giving it a slightly casual feel. It’s not the first time the actress wears Saab’s extravagant designs. The actress has before graced red carpet premieres and award ceremonies in his designs in the past years, championing the Beirut-born couturier’s elegant and fairytale creations. Some examples that immediately come to mind include the black and gold dress that Bullock wore to the 2013 Academy Awards. More recently, the “The Blind Side” star opted for a champagne-colored design by Saab to attend the world premiere of “Oceans 8” in 2018. “The Lost City” is set to make its debut next month. The comedy-adventure film directed by brothers Aaron and Adam Nee is about a withdrawn writer named Loretta Sage, played by Bullock, who writes romance books revolving around a fictional hero named Dash, portrayed by cover model Alan, played by Channing Tatum. While on tour together for her new book, Loretta gets kidnapped by Abigail Fairfax, played by Daniel Radcliff, an eccentric billionaire who believes that the stories and places of her books are real — and that Loretta knows where they are. Alan takes it upon himself to try and rescue her, despite having any survival skills.