RIYADH: Oil prices rose on Tuesday, with Brent surging past $127 a barrel, as the possibility of formal western sanctions against Russian oil exports spurred concerns over supply. Benchmark Brent crude futures for May climbed $3.56, or 2.9 percent, to $126.77 a barrel at 11:03 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate, or WTI, crude futures for April delivery rose $3.12, or 2.6 percent, to $122.52 a barrel. The rise in oil prices has prompted the US to open a dialogue with the Venezuelan president on energy matters. The White House said on Monday that a US delegation held weekend talks in Venezuela with the government of President Nicolas Maduro that included a discussion of energy supplies — as Washington looks for ways to reduce its imports of Russian oil. The surprise move comes at a time when analysts at Bank of America said that if most of Russia’s oil exports were cut off, there could be a shortfall of at least 5 million barrels per day, pushing prices as high as $200. JP Morgan analysts said oil could soar to $185 this year, while analysts at Mitsubishi UFJ said oil may rise to $180 and cause a global recession. Oil prices see-sawed near 14-year highs on Tuesday as the United States considered acting alone to ban Russian oil imports rather than teaming up with allies in Europe, easing concerns of a wider disruption to crude supplies. Brent crude futures on Tuesday are trading around $125, while US benchmark WTI is near $121. US-Venezuela talks Maduro, with whose regime the United States broke off relations in 2019, has been among the few international figures to assure Russian President Vladimir Putin of his “strong support” in the wake of the invasion. “As it relates to Venezuela, the purpose of the trip that was taken by administration officials was to discuss a range of issues including certainly energy, energy security,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters. Venezuela’s opposition also said it had met with the high-level US delegation, whose trip to Caracas — reported by multiple US media — came as Washington seeks to isolate Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Maduro confirmed the meeting in a televised appearance late Monday, describing it as “respectful, cordial and diplomatic” without going into detail about the issues addressed. “We did it in the presidential office,” he said. “We had almost two hours talking.” “It seemed very important to me to be able, face to face, to discuss topics of maximum interest to Venezuela,” he continued. US aims to reduce Russian oil imports The United States has imposed a battery of sanctions on Caracas in a bid to force Maduro from power, with one 2019 measure preventing Venezuela from trading its crude oil — which accounted for 96 percent of the country’s revenues — on the US market. According to The New York Times, the visit by senior State Department and White House officials was linked to Washington’s alleged interest in replacing part of the oil it currently buys from Russia with the oil it stopped buying from Venezuela. The White House has indicated it is examining how to reduce Russian oil imports without harming US consumers and while maintaining global supply — although Psaki said Monday no decision had been made on a possible ban on Russian oil. Iran nuclear deal Meanwhile, talks to revive Iran’s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers were mired in uncertainty after Russia demanded a US guarantee that sanctions it faces over the Ukraine conflict would not hurt its trade with Tehran. Iran’s Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian said Tehran would not allow “any foreign elements to undermine its national interests,” and the Foreign Ministry said it awaited an explanation from Russia. France told Russia not to resort to blackmail over efforts to revive the nuclear deal, and Iran’s top security official said the outlook for the talks “remains unclear.”
Iran would take several months to restore oil flows even if it reached a nuclear deal, analysts said.