ABU DHABI: After a prolonged high-intensity training camp, the UAE national jiu-jitsu team are entering their final phase of preparation for next week’s sixth Asian Championships in Manama, Bahrain. Set to compete on Monday and Tuesday (March 28 and 29), the team of 26 — 14 women and 12 men — have been winding down this week to ensure they arrive injury-free and in optimal condition to repeat the medal-winning performances of last year and cement their dominance on the mat. Ahead of the continental tournament, Polyana Lago, the Brazilian coach of the UAE national women’s team, says she has high expectations for her squad as they prepare to take on the best athletes from across Asia. “Training started for some of the participants back in January,” said Lago. “The fully fledged camp started a few weeks ago and is coming to a head. Our players were put through a rigorous training camp and were putting in 100 percent effort. Now is the moment to ease off and train at a lower intensity to avoid injury ahead of the event. “We have several young and talented players competing in the tournament and are certain that these players will be the team’s mainstay over the next few years. I’m sure their dedication and hard work will pay off.” The key takeaway from last year’s Jiu-Jitsu World Championship in Abu Dhabi, according to Lago, was to improve the power of the athletes. “For the Asian championships, we are putting increased efforts into improving our team’s physical strength,” Lago added. “The authorities and the coaches are always working on developing a new generation capable of taking on the best in the world and winning the medals, so we are focusing on improving them on a daily basis so they can reach their potential quicker and successfully represent the UAE on an international stage.” This month’s successful AJP Tour Dubai International Pro served as the ideal warm-up for next week’s Asian championship, with several of the female athletes putting in impressive performances. “The Dubai Tour was undoubtedly a terrific warm-up session for our elite athletes,” Lago said. “The players put some incredible performances down on the mat, demonstrating what they will bring to Bahrain this weekend.” At last year’s Asian championship in Abu Dhabi, the UAE produced excellent performances to finish top of the medal table, taking home four gold, four silver, and 10 bronze medals.