RIYADH: The Saudi Ports Authority, also known as MAWANI, on Sunday launched its Smart Ports initiative that aims to automate operations at all Saudi ports.
“Today, Saudi ports are entering a crucial stage of transforming into automated smart ports by adopting the technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution with their advanced applications,” said Omar bin Talal Hariri, president of the ports authority.  أشكر معالي وزير النقل والخدمات اللوجستية @SalehAlJasser ومعالي وزير الاتصالات وتقنية المعلومات @aalswaha وشركاء النجاح من القطاع الحكومي والخاص على تشريفهم في حفل إطلاق مبادرة الموانئ الذكية التي سنصنع بها إسهامات تنموية لتحقيق أهداف الاستراتيجية الوطنية للنقل والخدمات اللوجستية pic.twitter.com/njECg9pyQW — عمر طلال حريري | Omar Hariri (@ojhariri) March 20, 2022 During the launch ceremony, MAWANI signed agreements with Saudi Telecom Co., Ericsson, Huawei,  the Saudi Global Ports Co., the Red Sea Gateway Terminal Co., and DP World.
Through these agreements, the authority aims to make Saudi ports a pioneer in applying modern technologies and enhancing their competitiveness at the regional and international levels.
All parties involved in these agreements will cooperate in accelerating and implementing 5G technology in port operations.
Under these deals, the firms will also provide technologies like cloud computing services development, cybersecurity, application services, and platforms.
Hariri also said the initiative will contribute to ensuring marine environment health through the adoption of clean and renewable energy. Saudi Arabia aims to become a logistics hub and to achieve that goal the Kingdom launched a national strategy last year.
The comprehensive program aims to position the Kingdom as a global logistics hub connecting three continents, and improve all transport services in support of Saudi Vision 2030. MAWANI signed agreements with Saudi Telecom Co., Ericsson, Huawei, the Saudi Global Ports Co., the Red Sea Gateway Terminal Co., and DP World. All parties involved in these agreements will cooperate in accelerating and implementing 5G technology in port operations. A host of game-changing projects are planned to help achieve the strategy’s economic and social goals, along with improved governance to enhance the work of the organizations involved.
It has four main goals: To transform Saudi Arabia into a logistics hub; boost the quality of life across the country; enhance fiscal sustainability; and improve the performance of public entities.
The new strategy also seeks to improve the capabilities of the air cargo sector by doubling its capacity to more than 4.5 million tons.
Saudi Arabia expects its new transport and logistics strategy to generate SR550 billion ($150 billion) in investments by 2030 in areas such as public transport, railways, and airports expansion and development.
MAWANI also aims to drive up the contributions of the private sector to the development of ports in the Kingdom to 90 percent by 2030. 