DUBAI: French-Algerian catwalk model Loli Bahia is fast becoming one of the world’s star fashion attractions. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 19-year-old breakout model hit the runway this week for renowned French luxury label Yves Saint Laurent at Paris Fashion Week that runs until March 8. The brand showcased a series of slender cocktail gowns, from its Fall 2022 collection, on a catwalk overlooking the base of the Eiffel Tower. Several long-legged models strode across a pale pink carpet in long, sleek dresses, some wispy at the bottom, and wrapped in sharp-shouldered tuxedos and oversize faux-fur coats, as electronic music by French DJ Sebastian played.   Bahia, who has been making waves in the fashion industry, wore a floor-length sheer brown dress with a high black neck. She topped her look with a leather coat that had floral detailing on the chest area and the sleeves, which added a touch of romance to the somber color palette. In his show notes, creative director Anthony Vaccarello cited the style of 20th century anti-fascist poet Nancy Cunard, known to favor chunky jewelry and masculine silhouettes. Echoing Cunard’s look, some outfits were accessorized with stacks of large bracelets or prominent earrings, while long coats and low-waisted jackets were worn with the collars turned up. At the end of the show, Vaccarello dipped into the crowd to embrace guests in the front row, including French fashion icon Betty Catroux and actress Catherine Deneuve.   Bahia has walked the runway for renowned luxury labels including Fendi, Max Mara, Prada and others at Milan Fashion Week, which ran from Feb. 22 to Feb. 28. The rising star partnered with international brands including Altuzarra, Khaite, Proenza Schouler and Tory Burch during New York Fashion Week in February. Signed to Women Management Paris, she made her runway debut in 2020 at the Louis Vuitton Fall 2021 show and went on to star in the Parisian fashion luxury house’s campaign for fall last year. She has also featured in numerous campaigns for high-end fashion labels including Saint Laurent and Max Mara, and has featured on the covers of prestigious fashion publications, among them Vogue Italia.