DOHA: Adidas has unveiled “Al Rihla” — the official match ball for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 at an event in Qatar, which saw World Cup winners Kaka and Iker Casillas take part in a friendly match alongside some of the best local players.
It is the 14th successive ball Adidas has created for the World Cup and has been designed to travel faster in flight than any of its predecessors.
“The game is getting faster, and as it speeds up, accuracy and flight stability become critically important,” said Franziska Loeffelmann, design director at Adidas.
“The new design allows the ball to maintain its speed significantly higher as it journeys through the air. For the biggest global stage in all of sport, we set out to make the impossible possible with radical innovation by creating the fastest and most accurate World Cup ball to date.”
After revealing Al Rihla, Arabic for “The Journey,” the Brazilian and Spanish legends were joined on the pitch by a mix of talent featuring aspiring female football players from Qatar, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Egypt and young players from the Aspire academy.
The football match, played on the sand dunes of Qatar, took place on a specially created pitch, which will be donated to Challenge F.C., Saudi Arabia’s first ever women’s football league champions, to become a permanent fixture in Riyadh.
The ball was also designed with the environment in mind. Al Rihla is the first World Cup ball made using only water-based inks and glues.
According to its designers the ball’s colors and graphics were inspired by the culture, architecture, boats and flag of Qatar.
Now, launch events will take place in 10 cities across the globe where Adidas is creating a series of initiatives aimed at improving access and equity in sport among local communities.
“At Adidas, we believe sport belongs to all, and we have been committed and active in improving access and equity for our global community of footballers. As part of this commitment, on its journey around the world, Al Rihla will support local communities with activations designed to create lasting impact for grassroots and beyond,” said Nick Craggs, general manager for football.
“We are also proud to continue our work with Common Goal, with 1 percent of Al Rihla’s net sales supporting the movement, together using football as a vehicle to drive social change and meaningful impact for the lives of young people.”