RIYADH: The Family Office, a leading wealth manager in the GCC, is again at the vanguard of innovation. After the launch of its proprietary application, the company will soon launch a first of its kind digital wealth management platform in the region, allowing investors to customize their portfolios at the touch of a button. 
Stemming from a deep understanding of the shifting forces in the market, The Family Office embarked on its digital journey in the mid-2010s to ensure its services cater to all potential clients. According to a Cerulli Associates projection, Generation X (born between 1965 and 1980) will be inheriting approximately $48 trillion in the upcoming years, dubbed the Great Wealth Transfer. These emerging investors are more discerning and require digital solutions to cater to their fast-paced lifestyle. 
Global Wealth 2021 Report by Boston Consulting Group has identified several pain-points faced by client groups including the lack of personalization, a transaction- or product-driven exchange rather than an interaction-driven experience, and an exclusively human approach, rather than one that combines the best of both human and digital.
Deeply immersed in the market since 2004, The Family Office developed its digital solutions to address every pain-point adequately, offering clients a seamless experience across all digital touch points and making their wealth management journey intuitive and fulfilling. 
Whether using its proprietary app or the soon-to-be-launched portal, clients will always feel connected and in control with all the functionalities they need at their fingertips, from browsing exclusive international investment deals, to automated subscriptions and redemptions, tools and simulators for building portfolios, and educational content in interactive form. Clients can also schedule a call with financial advisers at their convenience through a scheduler tool.
Abdulmohsin Al-Omran, founder and chief executive officer of The Family Office, said: “We are committed to making our clients’ experience as convenient and effortless as possible. All our online platforms aim to provide direct access to portfolio performance, exclusive deals, and educational content with an intuitive, user-friendly interface at their fingertips.”