RIYADH: The King Abdulaziz and His Companions Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity, represented by the Center of Excellence, launched the asynchronous professional development program for educators, in cooperation with the international Coursera platform. The program allows educators to carry out their role in developing students’ capacities and maximizing the impact of their enrollment in gifted programs. It is comprised of four training programs, including dozens of courses in English with Arabic translation, which aim to expand the scope of training provided to Mawhiba partners in parallel with the training targeted toward educators of gifted programs. The four programs cover the management of partnerships with schools, enrichment programs, competitions and research programs, as well as the development of innovation. They have been carefully designed to meet the needs of educators for advanced knowledge and skills in different fields, with training based on engaging learners and making them the main focus of the educational process. The training program covers modern topics, including inclusive education, communication and learning in the age of digital media, social and emotional learning, and principles and patterns of pedagogy, with all courses helping teachers unleash student creativity and innovate the learning process. The asynchronous professional development program provides educators with the opportunity to train at any time and place in a flexible manner, with trainees managing their own time. It also provides them with the opportunity to choose the training program most suitable for their work and the professional aspects they wish to develop to improve their performance. This aspect will ease the learning process for trainees and ensure that they receive the necessary professional development and quality training approved by international, prestigious educational institutions. This program comes with the vision adopted by Mawhiba in pursuit of progress and within its efforts to create an environment that stimulates talent and creativity. The development of educators thus represents an integral part in helping talented students achieve success.