March 26 — the great Independence Day and National Day of Bangladesh. On this historic day, I extend my heartfelt greetings and warm felicitations to all Bangladeshis living both home and abroad. I recall with profound reverence the greatest Bengali of all time, Father of the Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who declared the independence of Bangladesh on March 26, 1971. Under his prudent leadership, we finally achieved victory against the Pakistani occupation forces, through a nine-month-long Liberation War. I also pay profound homage to the 3 million martyrs and the 200,000 of our mothers and sisters whose utmost sacrifices during the Liberation War ushered in this independent Bangladesh. I also pay my profound gratitude to the members of our diaspora and those involved on the diplomatic front who, during and after our Liberation War, played a vital role in gaining international recognition for Bangladesh. I also acknowledge, with deep gratitude, the enormous contribution of our foreign friends in the emergence of an independent Bangladesh. Bangabandhu was an undisputed leader in pursuit of the emancipation of Bengalis. He taught us to break the shackles and yearn for freedom. He led us in achieving independence through unyielding hardship and the struggle for freedom. Bangabandhu dreamed of a happy, prosperous and equitable “Sonar Bangla” — a Golden Bangladesh. His able daughter, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, has been working relentlessly to realize Bangabandhu’s dream of transforming Bangladesh into a developed country by 2041. Now Bangladesh, as a “Role Model of Development,” is on a pathway to prosperity, with a 6.94 percent gross domestic product growth rate and income of $2,591 per capita. I congratulate all of the Bangladeshi diaspora in every corner of the world, who are contributing to the development of the country. I also thank all the members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our missions abroad, who have been working relentlessly to uphold Bangladesh’s interests across the world. On this auspicious day, let us pledge to work together to transform Bangladesh into the prosperous country that Bangabandhu dreamed of. Joi Bangla, Joi Bangabandhu. May Bangladesh Live Forever. Dr. A. K. Abdul Momen, MP Dr. A. K. Abdul Momen, Foreign Minister Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh