DUBAI: Eddie Howe hopes Newcastle United’s trip to Dubai can help forge new friendships and strengthen unity ahead of the Magpies’ Premier League run-in. Howe took the unprecedented step of jetting his players away for a second warm weather training camp in less than two months, taking up residency in the world-renowned Nad Al Sheba Sports Complex for seven days from last Friday. While Amanda Staveley led the delegation to Riyadh in January, this time husband and fellow Interim Co-Chief Executive Mehrdad Ghodoussi is representing the club’s owners in the Middle East. Howe’s players have not only been put through their paces in the sun, they’ve prioritized recovery ahead of the final nine games of the season, having done three away trips in a little under eight days prior to their visit. “It’s a way for the lads to not just work but talk in a different environment, and it does stimulate new friendships,” said Howe. “I’m a firm believer in these periods you have away. New friendships can form and it can bring the group closer. So, I think there are natural benefits, which really help the team. “When you look at COVID-19, it obviously hits the country hard in many different ways. From a football perspective, it encouraged separation — training in smaller groups, changing in different areas. I think you lost the feeling of the team being as one, and pre-season trips were rightly stopped for a long period of time. “Now, these things are open to us again, and I think team unity, everything associated with building a team spirit, has to be worked on — it’s not just going to happen,” Howe said. “I think bringing injured players with us also is key because those players will have an essential role to play in our success, whether on the pitch or off the pitch. It’s very important we treat everyone with the same care and love.” In that three-game run, Newcastle managed to extend their unbeaten stretch to nine games with victory at Southampton, before two 1-0 losses — to Chelsea and Everton — brought them back down to earth with a bang. It’s a stark contrast to the emotions shared in heading to Saudi, which came off the back of a morale-boosting win at Leeds United. Howe said: “I take losing very personally. “I’ve always been that way. I hate to lose anything, so when you’re in my shoes, you need to control that emotion and make sure it doesn’t harm the team. “I am sure the players feel the same way, very disappointed with our last result,” said Howe. “But they need to get that out of their system very quickly and look to the future because that’s something we can affect. “That’s something we have to work toward now — trying to get a positive result in our next game.”