DUBAI: The 27th annual Critics Choice Awards took place in Los Angeles and London, celebrating the best in television and film. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Hosted by US actor Taye Diggs and comedian Nicole Byer, the star-studded occasion was filled with glamor and style. Celebrities took to the red carpet before the event to show off their finest evening wear, with many donning creations from Arab designers. A staple to any red carpet is Lebanese designer Elie Saab who dressed two A-listers. “This Is Us” star Mandy Moore wore a flowy dress by Saab from his spring 2022 collection. The sheer, off-white gown boasted touches of crystals, embroidery, and a back cape that lent a regal look. British singer Rita Ora also paraded in a striking gown from the Beirut-born couturier, opting for a dark red velvet dress with sheer paneling from his fall 2021 collection. Lebanese designers also found a fan in US actress Jada Pinkett-Smith, who donned Maison Rabih Kayrouz for the occasion. Pinkett-Smith opted for a metallic golden strapless gown to celebrate her long-time husband, Will Smith, who received an award during the night for best actor in “King Richard,” the biographical drama about Richard Williams, the father of famed tennis sisters Venus and Serena Williams.   Adding to the list of celebrities who wore Arab designers’ outfits for the night was Australian actress Liv Hewson who sported a two-piece set by Lebanese designer Rani Zakhem. Hewson dressed in a couture white organza blouse with dramatic sleeves, paired with a belted hunter green tulle ballgown skirt. She accessorized with a pink flower hair adornment and a floral-embellished wooden cane. American actress Krys Marshall donned a yellow gown from Lebanese design duo Azzi and Osta. The figure-hugging dress had a lilac belt that was floor-length and had waist-hugging embellishments. Elsewhere, Mexican A-lister Lety Sahagun opted for a black, off-the-shoulder dress with a tulle floor-length cape from Kuwaiti designer Bazza Alzouman. In addition to the striking evening wear, other highlights of the night included Jane Campion’s sweep. The New Zealand film director took home the top prizes of the night, making her dark Western movie “The Power of the Dog” the flick to beat at the Oscars. On the TV side, “Succession” won best drama, “Ted Lasso” continued its relentless award sweep of the comedy prizes, and “Mare of Easttown” was named best limited series.