SHARJAH: Saudi craftswomen and female art teams are participating in the 19th edition of the Sharjah Heritage Days. Organized by the Sharjah Institute for Heritage under the slogan “Heritage and the Future,” the event will run until March 28 in the Heritage Square at the heart of Sharjah. Sharjah Heritage Days, in which 33 countries are participating from across the world, aims to link the past with the present and to seek inspiration in heritage for future achievements. Al-Sorayai Art Group from Al-Ahsa is participating in the event, with the Saudi team presenting traditional Saudi art, in addition to plastic arts. Aida Al-Harthy is participating through one of the Kingdom’s oldest traditional crafts, the art of Sadu weaving, which represents humans’ adaptation to their environment by transforming raw material into usable goods, such as rugs and blankets. The craft, Al-Harthy explained, depends on materials and tools including camel or goat hair and spindles and wooden pegs. Fatima Al-Ghamdi, a trainer and craftswoman, said that she came to participate in Sharjah Heritage Days upon an invitation from the Sharjah Heritage Institute to introduce visitors to Saudi heritage, representing the diverse regions of the Kingdom through clothing and embroidery. Aida Al-Harthy is participating through one of the Kingdom’s oldest traditional crafts, the art of Sadu weaving, which represents humans’ adaptation to their environment by transforming raw material into usable goods, such as rugs and blankets. The craft, Al-Harthy explained, depends on materials and tools including camel or goat hair and spindles and wooden pegs. Khalid bin Fahd Al-Hamim, the supervisor of the Saudi team participating in Sharjah Heritage Days, said that the participation of “the daughters of the homeland” in the festival is a demonstration of their strong presence in representing the Kingdom in regional and international forums. “Saudi women are proving to be pioneers in all activities and fields,” he added. 