DUBAI: Several embassies from the Arab world in Japan are calling for the safety of their citizens and providing helplines in case of emergencies after an earthquake with a magnitude of 7.4 hit parts of northeastern Japan. The intense quake left many areas in the country without electricity and is so far known to have claimed the lives of one person, with 97 injured, according to Japan’s Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. The government set up a quake response task force at the crisis management center of the prime minister’s office after the quake. Arab embassies are following developments diligently and keeping its citizens updated. The Embassy of Saudi Arabia in Japan tweeted that they were following up on the effects of the earthquake and stressing the safety of its citizens.  تتابع السفارة آثار الزلزال في محافظة #Miyagi بقوة (7.3) درجات، مؤكدة سلامة المواطنين السعوديين ولله الحمد، وتهيب بالمواطنين التقيد بتعليمات السلطات المحلية المتعلقة بالكوارث، وفي حال حدوث أي طارئ يرجى التواصل مع شؤون السعوديين:
09055833862
0335895242
متمنية السلامة للجميع pic.twitter.com/sUehzaIfXS — السفارة في اليابان (@KSAembassyJP) March 16, 2022  Similarly, the UAE’s embassy in Tokyo provided a helpline telephone number to ensure its citizens are safely sheltered.  pic.twitter.com/oN1exxfNYx — UAE Embassy Tokyo (@UAEEmbTokyo) March 16, 2022  The Embassy of Kuwait in Tokyo tweeted it was following thoroughly the developments of the aftermath of the powerful earthquake. It also called on citizens to abide by the instructions of local Japanese authorities.  تتابع السفارة آثار الزلزال في محافظة مياغي و فوكوشيما بقوة (7.3) درجات، وتهيب بالمواطنين التقيد بتعليمات السلطات المحلية اليابانية المتعلقة بالكوارث، وفي حال حدوث أي طارئ يرجى التواصل على رقم الطوارئ: 819088849650+ — KUWAIT EMBASSY/TOKYO (@kuw_emb_japan) March 16, 2022  The Embassy of Bahrain in Japan tweeted calling on its citizens to follow all instructions, especially considering the tsunami warning.  pic.twitter.com/u0NFr6DiHe — Embassy of Bahrain to Japan (@BahrainEmbJP) March 16, 2022  The Jordanian Embassy in Japan also tweeted asking Jordanian citizens to follow the utmost precaution and abide by local authorities’ instructions.  ‼️إلى أعضاء الجالية الأردنية الكرام لاحقاً للهزة الارضية بقوة 7.3 على مقياس ريختر التي ضربت مساء اليوم الأربعاء بالقرب من سواحل اليابان الشرقية، ندعوكم الى توخي الحيطة والحذر والالتزام بالتعليمات الصادرة عن السلطات المحلية. هاتف الطوارئ: 07044684184.https://t.co/AmTeo2oAPK https://t.co/XcbsSJGRkq — Embassy Of Jordan Japan (@JoEmbassyJPN) March 16, 2022  This article originally published in Japanese on Arab News Japan