March 26 - Our Great Independence and National Day. On this special day, I pay profound reverence to the great leader of our War of Liberation, the great architect of our independence, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who led his people from the front in various movements and struggles. With profound respect, I recall the supreme sacrifices made by our war heroes, the 3 million martyrs and 200,000 mothers and sisters. Pakistani occupation forces indiscriminately committed one of the worst genocides on March 25, 1971 to make the Bengali nation silent forever. This diabolical mass killing during the Liberation War is a dark chapter not only in the history of Bangladesh but in the history of the humanity of the world. Bangabandhu declared the independence of Bangladesh in the early hours of March 26, 1971, when our country claimed its place on the world map as an independent and sovereign state with self-esteem after the nine-month-long Liberation War. Bangabandhu is the name of a legend who dreamed of a secular and prosperous country free of hunger and poverty. Under the visionary leadership of his capable daughter, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, the current government has been working relentlessly to transform Bangladesh into a developed country by 2041. Along with economic growth, Bangladesh has become a role model for the reduction of poverty, the empowerment of women, efforts to combat climate change, and the significant reduction of the child mortality rate. I congratulate all members of the Bangladeshi diaspora in every corner of the world, who have contributed immensely to our economic development and the improved image of Bangladesh. I also thank all the members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our missions abroad who have been working with sustained dedication and commitment to achieve the goals of our foreign policy. On this glorious day, imbued with the spirit of our great Liberation War and with a view to building on Bangabandhu’s dream of a “Sonar Bangla” — Golden Bengal — let us make a fresh vow to work from our respective positions to build a better Bangladesh for future generations. Joi Bangla, Joi Bangabandhu. May Bangladesh Live Forever. Md. Shahriar Alam, MP State Minister Ministry of Foreign Affairs