RIYADH: A missile and drones attack launched late on Saturday by Yemen's Houthi militia toward Saudi Arabia were intercepted and destroyed, the Coalition to Restore Legitimacy in Yemen said. In a statement carried by state media, the coalition said “a hostile attack” targeted a water desalination plant in Al-Shaqeeq and an Aramco facility in Jazan, while another drone targeted a gas station in the city of Khamis Mushayt. Coalition air defenses intercepted and destroyed the drones as well as the missile, which was aimed at a civilian area in Jazan, the Saudi Press Agency and Al-Ekhbariyah reported. “We are following the launch of hostile cross-border attacks from Sanaa International Airport,” the statement said.  #عاجل
مقاطع فيديو وصور لبعض الأضرار المادية جراء المحاولة العدائية من قبل المليشيا الحوثية لاستهداف محطة الغاز بخميس مشيط.#واس_عام pic.twitter.com/UdEOBQmXWJ — واس العام (@SPAregions) March 19, 2022  Video footage and images posted on Twitter by the SPA showed that the Dhahran Al-Janoub power station near Jazan had also been attacked — with the agency posting photos and a video clips showing firefighters tackling a blaze at the site. Photos also showed a residential home and vehicles destroyed in Jazan. Al Ekhbariyah TV quoted the coalition as saying the missile targetted civilians, but no casualties were reported so far.  #عاجل
مقاطع فيديو وصور لبعض الأضرار المادية جراء المحاولة العدائية من قبل المليشيا الحوثية لاستهداف محطة الغاز بخميس مشيط.#واس_عام pic.twitter.com/YlUrZ76GGf — واس العام (@SPAregions) March 19, 2022 Earlier this week, the Houthis rejected an invitation from the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council to attend talks on the Yemen conflict, to be held in Riyadh from March 29. Saudi Arabia is leading a military coalition in Yemen in support of the internationally recognized government, which has been engaged in a bloody conflict against the Houthis since mid-2014. The war has cost hundreds of thousands of lives, directly or indirectly, and displaced millions, in what the United Nations has called the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. The Iran-backed Houthi militia often target airports and oil facilities in Saudi Arabia, and has also attacked facilities in the United Arab Emirates.  #عاجل
مقاطع فيديو وصور لبعض الأضرار المادية جراء المحاولة العدائية من قبل المليشيا الحوثية لاستهداف محطة الغاز بخميس مشيط.#واس_عام pic.twitter.com/4nwx8k0kbG — واس العام (@SPAregions) March 19, 2022 