NEWCASTLE: Premier League record goalscorer Alan Shearer has called on the club’s owners to deliver goals for Eddie Howe in the summer transfer window. And it’s fair to say Shearer knows a thing or two about goals. The Geordie’s 260 strikes for Blackburn Rovers (54) and Newcastle United (206) in the Premier League remains the highest total recorded to this day, despite the efforts of the likes of Wayne Rooney, Sergio Aguero and Thierry Henry to break it. Of the current crop of players, only England captain Harry Kane looks like getting close to raising the bar, although the Tottenham Hotspur frontman remains 82 goals behind Shearer. The legendary Magpies No.9 is urging PCP Capital Partners, RB Sports & Media Ltd and the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia to sign a forward when trading opens again in May — provided top-flight status is secured — to help take the goals burden off Callum Wilson. "The rumours are starting, Newcastle will be linked with every player going — and that’s no bad thing considering where we were,” said Shearer when asked who his dream summer signing would be. “What we have missed this season is someone to come in when Callum is injured. With Callum’s injury record he was always going to be out and our problem is there was no one to replace him to score the goals. “Someone is going to be lucky enough to come in and play that position, I have been lucky enough to do it, and hopefully they can score us lots of goals. They will get the adulation they deserve (if they do), I had that and it was an unbelievable feeling.” Despite being out since December with a calf problem, Wilson remains Newcastle’s top scorer this season with six. The big-money signing of Chris Wood to fill that gap has delivered little in the way of a goals return, even if his performances have been applauded by the Magpies’ faithful. Shearer admits he’s a big fan of Wilson, but his injury record means Howe must look to get a player who can play week-in, week-out in the top flight. “Given his history it was obvious he would be out at some point,” Shearer said of Wilson. “When he does play he offers us a threat in behind. He offers us that nous in the six yard box, in terms of when and where to be to put the ball in the back of the net — and that’s a great skill in itself. “We have missed his goals.” Since majority shareholders PIF completed the purchase of Newcastle in October, the landscape has changed dramatically on Tyneside. Gone are the days of doom, gloom and relegation struggles, replaced by a new era of ambition at St James’ Park — and Shearer admits he's loving every minute of it. “It is a different place,” he said of the mood around the city since the Saudi takeover. “The feeling of what Newcastle fans want — they want to work all week, then spend the weekend by going to Newcastle United. “It is chalk and cheese from what it was 12 months ago. The city is buzzing, everyone is rowing in the same direction — and that’s what Newcastle United does for us and the region. We live and breathe our football. “It’s a much healthier city than it was a while ago.”