DUBAI: Palestinian-Dutch supermodel Bella Hadid is the star of Burberry’s new campaign for the British label’s “The Lola Bag” alongside models Lourdes Leon, Jourdan Dunn and Ella Richards. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “Strong women have always inspired me beyond limitations, and Bella, Lourdes, Jourdan and Ella embody that spirit,” said Burberry creative chief officer Riccardo Tisci. “They represent femininity at its most powerful and the essence of that attitude that is inherently Lola.” The visuals for the new advertorial were created in partnership with Torso Solutions with styling by Suzanne Koller, and feature the models riding half-cut horse figures as they tote the new it-bag designed by Tisci. A post shared by Burberry (@burberry) Tisci described the product as “a soft silhouette punctuated with the Thomas Burberry Monogram clasp and a polished chain strap.” The clasp, a T, and a B honor the brand’s founder, Thomas Burberry. The padded bag comes in various sizes, styles and colors, including pale vanilla and natural raffia. In the ad campaign, Hadid takes the reins wearing the white and black versions of the handbag. “It was amazing to work with Riccardo and the Burberry family again and I absolutely loved shooting this campaign,” said Hadid. “I always have the best time on set, there was so much energy and it was great to work with a mixture of incredibly talented people.” A post shared by Burberry (@burberry) Hadid is a long-time friend of Tisci and muse of the fashion house. The California-bred model has appeared in several runways for Burberry, including the recent fashion show where the luxury label showcased its star-studded fall 2022 ready-to-wear collection, which was a celebration of British culture. Hadid also took part in their previous spring 2020 campaign, which was shot by photography duo Inez and Vinoodh, alongside her sister Gigi Hadid, Kendall Jenner, and Mona Tougaard. She also recently attended the intimate, moonlit dinner on the rooftop of the British brand’s flagship store on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles for their pop-up-style takeover, “Animal Instinct.” On Tisci, who joined the brand in 2019, Hadid said in a previous interview: “It is always one of my biggest honors to work with a friend like Riccardo.”