MAKKAH: The General Presidency for the Affairs of the Grand Mosque and the Prophet’s Mosque has recently allocated five smart brooms to clean and disinfect the surface of the Kaaba, to wash and clean it within 20 minutes. The under-secretary-general for services, field affairs and environmental protection at the General Presidency announced the modernization of the smart vacuum to disinfect the surface of the Kaaba. It operates both manually and through an application, using the latest cleaning techniques. Mohammed Al-Jabri, the under-secretary-general for services and field affairs and environmental protection investigation, told Arab News: “The smart vacuum takes up to four hours to charge and its battery lasts for three continuous hours,” adding that “the smart vacuum covers an area of ​​180 square meters in three hours.” The cleaning operations are divided into several stages, the first of which is sweeping with wet cloths the surface of the Kaaba. It is also supplied with a hybrid vacuum and mop that runs on artificial intelligence mapping technology. Al-Jabri said: “These modern devices and technologies aim to preserve the quality of the marble, remove dirt and purify the Kaaba in particular and the Grand Mosque in general.” “The agency is keen to provide the latest technologies to purify the Sacred House of God,” he said, noting that “these technologies will contribute to speeding up the performance of tasks.” He added: “All employees are specialists and trained to serve the Sacred House and its visitors.” Al-Jabri concluded: “The agency’s services and efforts come in line with the follow-up and guidance of the General President of the Affairs of the Grand Mosque and the Prophet’s Mosque Sheikh Abdulrahman Al-Sudais, which we take as our guiding light, and in accordance with the aspirations of the wise leadership.” The under-secretary-general for services, field affairs and environmental protection disinfects the surface of the Kaaba with the help of a specialized Saudi team. The cleaning operations are divided into several stages, the first of which is sweeping with wet cloths the surface of the Kaaba, removing dust and bird droppings, then wiping the entire surface, the Kiswa holder, the wall, and the walls next to the Kaaba’s roof door from the outside. Modern tools provided by the General Presidency are used afterwards that wash, rinse and provide suction. The surface is then sprayed with water and wiped once again. Then comes the drying stage, and finally, spraying with natural rose water. The cleaning process is usually completed within 20 minutes, using the help of specialists trained to serve the Sacred House and its visitors. 