CAIRO: Three-hundred Russian tourists have arrived at Hurghada International Airport, the first holidaymakers to do so from that country since the start of the Ukraine war, it was confirmed by tour operators in the Red Sea governorate. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Several agents working for Russian tourism companies in the city of Hurghada, in southeast Egypt, revealed that Russia’s largest firm in the industry, Biblio-Globus, has resumed its operations; and will likely add flights to Sharm El-Sheikh resort. Incoming tourist trips from Russia were stopped and that country’s travelers evacuated in March due to Moscow’s war on Ukraine. According to figures from the Ministry of Tourism and the Egyptian Chamber of Tourist Establishments, Russian and Ukrainian citizens represent about 40 percent of beach holidaymakers who travel to Egypt annually. The director of reservations for a Russian tourism company said that the air carrier for Biblio-Globus flights to Egypt during April will be Red Wings, a regional leisure operator, instead of Russian Airlines. Sayed Al-Jabri, agent for a major tourism company operating in the Russian market, said that the Association of Russian Tour Operators confirmed the return of its direct flights from Moscow to Hurghada and Sharm El-Sheikh. “The official status of the flights is still unclear, as the flights are launched by order of … one tour operator,” he added. According to Red Wings, there are now three long-range Boeing 777-200s in the airline’s fleet that will operate on the routes to the North African country. It had obtained permission for the Boeing 777-200 flight program from the Russian and Egyptian aviation authorities. Flights to Hurghada and Sharm El-Sheikh from Zhukovsky International Airport will take place on Boeing 777-200s, provided that tourists stay for four or more days. Red Wings is offering two flights a week to Hurghada from April 3 to April 10. And from April 13 the flight operator will offer four flights a week.