DUBAI: Dutch model Imaan Hammam made a fashion statement at the weekend with her full Maison Alaia look. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The catwalk star, who was born to an Egyptian father and Moroccan mother, attended the Prince’s Trust Global Gala in New York wearing a black outfit that featured tailored pants, a belt corset and a top with a hood attached from the brand’s ready-to-wear spring 2022 collection. The UK-based charity’s star-studded event aims to help young people from around the world “transform their lives and build their futures,” according to the website. A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) It assists youth in the UK and more than 20 other countries to find work placement and employment opportunities. The event was hosted by Lionel Richie, chairman of the trust’s global ambassador board, and global ambassador Edward Enninful. “We are so grateful to everyone who has supported our ambition to help more young people here in the US realize their dreams, and I am proud to be part of this vital work,” Richie told guests.   He then treated the attendees to a performance of his hits “All Night Long” and “Dancing on the Ceiling.” The gala welcomed A-list celebrities and models, including the Hadid sisters Bella and Gigi, Adut Akech, Kate Moss, Sabrina Elba, Phoebe Dynevor, Naomi Campbell, Lily James and Charlotte Tilbury. Bella, who is of Palestinian-Dutch descent, wore a black voluminous Christian Dior dress, while Gigi shone in a hot pink Valentino off-the shoulder, thigh-high dress with pink tights, heels and a purse. Akech, a Sudanese-Australian model, wore a puff-sleeve top cut out at the waist and bright red shorts. A post shared by ELIE SAAB (@eliesaabworld) US model Karlie Elizabeth Kloss walked the red carpet in a glitzy gown by Lebanese designer Elie Saab. She chose a black floor-length dress from the designer’s ready-to-wear pre-fall 2022 collection that featured gold sequins at the bottom and feather detailing in the chest area.