NORWICH: Eddie Howe wishes he could field a team full of Joelintons after a Brazil-inspired Newcastle United victory at Norwich City.
A surprise pick as a forward, Joelinton netted the opening two goals of the game at Carrow Road, before compatriot Bruno Guimaraes made it four goals in black and white with a smart second-half finish.
Joelinton has been used in a number of roles since arriving in a $52 million deal in 2019, with No.9, wide forward, No.10 and most recently No.8 in midfield on his resume.
Howe, though, is keen not to pigeonhole the player in any particular role — but he does know the player’s versatility is a real asset to United’s squad.
“I think Joe can play anywhere in those front positions and obviously as an attacking midfielder as well. I’d never say that’s his position and that’s where he’s going to stay,” said Howe following the 3-0 win.
“Today, he showed his versatility and importance of his role in the team. He can play as a center forward or a second striker, he can play wide or in an eight, so it’s great to have players like that. I wish I had a few more.”
The summer is likely to see United dip into the market for yet more players of the ilk of Joelinton and Bruno, and although Howe is refusing to be drawn on any specific plans, fellow Brazil international Lucas Paqueta is understood to be on the club’s radar.
Asked whether more Brazilians were on the menu at the Magpies ahead of next season and why Newcastle’s current duo have proven so valuable, Howe said: “It’s difficult to say if it’s their nationality. It’s them as people.
“The two lads are a joy to work with. You’re right, they do have that inner strength. They’re both great people, very welcoming and they’ve become integral to the squad already.
“They’ve very much settled in and are very popular in the dressing room. They do have a slight flamboyance in the way they play,” Howe added.
“I’m delighted with both and long may that continue.”
For more than 10 minutes after the final whistle, and long after most had left the ground, Joelinton stood, arms aloft, fists clenched saluting the traveling fans, who sang his name with passion.
It was a good moment for the player on his 100th Premier League appearance, and one not lost on Howe.
“I’m really pleased for Joelinton on his 100th appearance,” said the head coach.
“You saw the scenes at the end there — brilliant moment for him especially knowing the journey he’s had at the club. A great day for us.”
On the win itself, which saw Newcastle climb to ninth in the Premier League table, Howe said: “It was a tight game until we scored the first goal. We weren’t particularly happy with how we started but once we scored, I thought we showed a different level in our play. We scored some great goals today.”