NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United are playing the waiting game on the fitness of key first-team player Ryan Fraser ahead of this weekend’s clash with Leicester City. Fraser limped out of the 1-0 home win over Wolverhampton Wanderers last week with a hamstring problem. And, despite a nine-day break between Premier League games, Howe says it’s yet unclear whether he will be able to call upon the services of the Scotland international at St. James’ Park on Sunday. “I don’t think it is too bad — but it was enough to bring him off,” said the head coach. “We had a scan with him and it showed a very small problem. We hope it won’t be too long with him. We will have to wait and see whether he makes this game.” News is more positive on Joe Willock, however. The midfielder was absent from the Wolves victory having seen a knee issue flare up at Tottenham Hotspur. “Joe has made good progress, he has trained this week, so we hope to have him fit,” said Howe. Supporters have been buoyed by the sight of both Kieran Trippier and Callum Wilson out on the grass of the club’s Benton training base in recent weeks. But there’s been no want from Howe to rush back the long-term injured duo, especially not with Premier League safety close to being secured. Trippier has not kicked a ball since his goal-scoring performance against Aston Villa on Feb. 13, while Wilson’s absence can be dated back to the home draw with Manchester United on Dec. 27. “Kieran, I think, is very slightly ahead of schedule,” said Howe. “He’s beginning to run back on the grass with his boots on, so that’s a great sign for us. He’s still got to build up his fitness and everything that comes with that but he’s in a good place.” On Wilson, Howe added: “Callum’s the same. He is hitting balls toward the goal, no goalkeeper in at the moment, only mannequins. But he’s gradually building up to where he wants to be which is great to see. “Personally, they’re OK because they’re both in a good place. They’re both improving in line with probably what we expected.” Hopes had been raised the duo could potentially see action before the end of the month, however Howe is in no mood to put any timescales on either player’s return. He said: “No dates at the moment. No games identified. It’s more we just want them to feel good within themselves. But they’re both improving.”