JEDDAH: The third edition of a Ramadan competition that will run in Saudi Arabia during the holy month has been launched by the General Presidency for the Affairs of the Two Holy Mosques. The competition, supported by Sheikh Abdulrahman Al-Sudais, head of the presidency, was launched via the presidency’s official Twitter account, and will start daily at 11 p.m. with the tweeting of a single question. On the first day of Ramadan, the presidency @ReasahAlharmain tweeted: “The prize for the first question of the General Presidency competition is going to be a smartphone.” The competition aims for light-hearted engagement with the audience by posting general questions related to Islamic aspects of the holy month, targeting all age groups so people can refresh their knowledge of religious and historic Islamic facts and principles. Questions can be answered only by participants from the Kingdom who can share their responses in a comment below the daily competition tweet. Entrants will have a 20-hour time slot in which to provide the correct answer, with the daily winner announced at 8 p.m. the following day. Participants must use the competition hashtag next to their answers, follow the presidency’s Twitter account, and retweet the question so it reaches the largest number of people. The winner will be announced on the presidency’s official Snapchat account. The competition will run for 29 or 30 days until the sighting of the Eid crescent moon, with high-end electronic devices and phones among the valuable prizes. All winners will receive their prizes after Eid. The competition began on Friday with the question: “How many Ramadans did the Prophet Muhammad fast.” The tweet received more than 15,000 responses within hours of the launch. Cultural programs, as well as competitions for children and adults, have long been associated with Ramadan in Saudi Arabia and the Arab world. Competitions are recalled by older generations as important educational programs streamed on Saudi radio stations and TV channels.