RIYADH: For the second year in a row, quality clothing was distributed for free to families in need at the Kiswa Charity Market, which took place this week in Riyadh under the patronage of Prince Abdullah bin Abdulrahman and Princess Adwa bint Fahd. The market, which opened on Saturday and closed on Thursday, aimed to distribute 20,000 items of clothing for families in need across the Kingdom to wear during the Eid Al-Fitr holiday. Organizers said it is the biggest charitable event of its kind in the Kingdom.   “Kiswa Charity Market gives families the opportunity to choose their Eid clothing free of charge … for men, women and children, plus accessories, bags and shoes,” said Omar Al-Mansour, the market’s public relations representative. At the official opening of the market the participating charities, their workers, volunteers and sponsors were thanked for their help in supporting families in need. The sponsors included retailers Red Tag and Centerpoint, healthcare providers Amass, the Society for Learning Disabilities, and the dairy Almarai, among others. ● The Kiswa project aims to reduce environmental damage and waste in the textile industry by collecting and recycling clothing for charitable initiatives. Another objective is to strengthen community bonds by providing opportunities people to volunteer and help those less fortunate than themselves. ● The organizers of the market worked with seven major charities across the country to identify worthy recipients of the clothes: Ebsar Fondation, Tarahum, the Charity Society in Hail, the Cooperative Office for Call and Guidance, the Charitable Society for the Care of Orphans Al-Baha, Jana Charity Association for girls with special needs, and Alber Charity. The organizers of the market worked with seven major charities across the country to identify worthy recipients of the clothes: Ebsar Fondation, Tarahum, the Charity Society in Hail, the Cooperative Office for Call and Guidance, the Charitable Society for the Care of Orphans Al-Baha, Jana Charity Association for girls with special needs, and Alber Charity. Saudi volunteers helped to collect and organize donations and set up and staff the market. “The volunteers’ reactions were feelings of happiness because they helped families, especially the blind, for whom they described the clothing, its colors, sizes and all the details they needed,” said Al-Mansour.   The volunteers said that they were pleased with the reactions they saw from visitors to the market and were very proud of what they had achieved through their efforts to share the joy of Eid. The market operates like any other except that all the items are free to the chosen recipients, who receive an invitation to visit the event and choose from a wide variety of clothing for their families, including dresses, pants, shirts, thobes and other traditional clothing. A wide range of sizes and styles is available for people of all ages, with the aim of helping as many as possible. The shoppers are free to browse racks of clothing and accessories to find exactly what they need. “The families that benefited are very happy because they have options from which to choose the clothing they want to wear,” Al-Mansour said. After attending the inauguration and touring this year’s clothing market, Princess Adwa proposed the introduction of a similar charitable market to distribute furniture and electronic appliances to thousands of families in need in the Kingdom. The Kiswa project aims to reduce environmental damage and waste in the textile industry by collecting and recycling clothing for charitable initiatives. Another objective is to strengthen community bonds by providing opportunities people to volunteer and help those less fortunate than themselves. 