DUBAI: Ramadan is a month of giving back, and these four fashion brands have been using their platforms to support underprivileged people during the holy month. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Behnoode The Italian bespoke brand, founded by designer Behnood Javaherpour in Naples in 2005, released a three-piece Ramadan collection for men. To celebrate the spirit of giving during the holy month, Javaherpour is donating all the proceeds from the sales to help displaced Ukrainian mothers and children who have fled their homeland during the war with Russia. The campaign also features a 27-year-old model, Nicolas, battling autism. Level Shoes The Dubai-based upscale store, selling a large selection of designer brand footwear, bags and accessories will donate to the charity foundations Nefsy and Tarahum in the UAE. Throughout the month of April, the leading luxury footwear retailer has been sharing a meal for every online and in-store purchase. The set target is 5,000 meals.   Commenting on the charitable approach, Elisa Bruno, general manager of Level Shoes, said: “This initiative pushes forth Level Shoes’ purpose-driven commitment to positive and philanthropic impact by finding ways to build a livelihood through our craft. “To that effect, we want to show the true spirit of Ramadan today, a time that bridges different generations and an opportunity to strengthen our broader strategy, create a stronger regional bond, and to celebrate with our communities.” Lacoste The French fashion label has once again launched its “Give for Good” movement, a clothing drive that encourages people to give their clothes a second chance by donating what they no longer need to underprivileged people in Saudi Arabia and the UAE. The movement has also partnered with Tarahum and the Kiswa project from Saudi Arabia, which brings together charities to collect clothing donations for disadvantaged families.   Participating in the “Give for Good” movement is simple. After you register online, you will be lead to a page that will request you to fill in your contact information, delivery and pick-up locations, and preferred schedule. Prepare the items you wish to donate by placing them in a bag or box.  A delivery representative will pick up your donation on the preferred schedule you confirmed in the registration process. Amazon In partnership with the UAE Food Bank, Amazon is providing a combination of grocery supplies, packaging materials, services and monetary donations to underprivileged families. The e-commerce company is also aiming to give out more than 1 million meals. The Ramadan initiative is part of the company’s global community engagement pillar, Right Now Needs, that seeks to eliminate the impossible choices posed by poverty, homelessness, hunger and natural disasters.