RIYADH: A second fuel ship docked  in the port of Yemen’s western city of Hodeidah on Monday as the Houthis intensified attacks on government troops in the province of Marib. Essam Al-Motawakel, spokesperson for the Houthi-controlled oil company, said on Sunday that a fuel ship, Caesar, entered Hodeidah port as part of the UN-brokered two-month truce. On Sunday, the first ship carrying fuel for power stations and plants arrived in Hodeidah, almost a day after the truce between warring factions took effect. The UN sponsored the latest truce, which demands an end to hostilities between the Yemeni government and the Houthis, as well as Houthi-cross border attacks on Saudi Arabia. It also permits the resumption of a limited number of flights from Sanaa airport and docking at Hodeidah seaport. During the truce, 18 vessels carrying fuel for the Houthi-controlled areas would be allowed to dock at Hodeidah seaport, and the country’s national airline would arrange two flights weekly from Sanaa airport to Jordan and Egypt. Despite announcing a commitment to stick to the truce, the Houthis intensified missile, drone and ground attacks on government-controlled areas outside Marib, Taiz and Hodeidah. Yemeni army spokesman Abdu Abdullah Majili told Arab News on Monday that the Houthis committed at least 89 violations of the truce in different locations in the three areas. He said that the most intense attacks were recorded outside Marib, where the Houthis assaulted government troops in a bid to advance further toward the strategic city. “The terrorist Houthi militia did not stick to the truce,” Majili said, adding that the army and allied tribal fighters stopped fighting following the agreement. Yemeni military officials say that the Houthis have deployed more fighters and military equipment to contested areas outside Marib in recent days, exploiting the truce that also halted Arab coalition airstrikes on Houthi targets. Separately, the Gulf Council Cooperation’s ambassador to Yemen, Sarhan Al-Munikher, said that more than 1,000 people have taken part in the GCC-brokered talks between Yemeni factions in the Saudi capital. He added that the Gulf bloc will support agreements reached at the conference between the factions. “We have clear directives from our leaders to provide all support to the brothers in Yemen until Yemen reaches comprehensive peace and security,” he told reporters at GCC headquarters, renewing calls to the Houthis to join the talks. “The door is open to all Yemenis,” he said, signaling that consultations would extend beyond April 7 if participants requested more time. The GCC-brokered talks, which began on March 30, include political parties, nongovernmental organizations and independent public figures. Participants will meet on Monday with Yemeni Prime Minister Maeen Abdul Malik Saeed and his Cabinet ministers to discuss proposed solutions to the country’s humanitarian crisis, relief efforts and the economy.