DUBAI: People who ride e-scooters in Dubai will now need a license to ride the electric vehicles across the city. That’s according to the Executive Council Resolution No. (13) issued on Thursday by Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai, which regulates the use of bicycles and electric scooters in the emirate. According to the new rules, riders below the age of 16 are not permitted to ride any electric bikes, scooters or other electric vehicles specified by the emirate’s Roads and Transport Authority (RTA). Meanwhile cyclists will be required to wear helmets and reflective vests, and bicycles must be fitted with a white headlamp in the front and a red lamp and reflector in the back. Bells need to be installed on the handles and brakes must be placed on the front and rear tyres. Bicycles and e-scooters are not allowed on jogging or walking tracks across the emirate, and speed limits set by authorities must be observed. Electric scooters and bicycles should only be ridden by one person, unless there is a separate seat for pillion riders. Bicycles must be kept only in designated parking spaces. Meanwhile, people conducting group cycling training sessions, with four or more cyclists, should first receive RTA approval and notify Dubai Police, Dubai Sports Council. UAE Cycling Federation, and Dubai Corporation for Ambulance Services before the session. A safety vehicle must be present at all times during the group cycling session to ensure riders’ safety, and will be required to leave a safe distance of 15 meters distance with the cyclists. Cyclists younger than 12 should be accompanied by an adult and adults will be responsible for violations committed by minors. Penalties include confiscating bikes for 30 days for repeated offenses within a year in addition to banning riders from cycling for a specified period. Mattar Al Tayer, director general of the RTA said the new rules were being introduced to improve safety and security on the emirate’s highways. Violators can dispute fines and penalties within 30 days of issue.