RIYADH: With a vibrant mix of modern and traditional decor and music from around the region, The Groves in Riyadh is welcoming visitors to experience Ramadan vibes. The Groves is set in the Diplomatic Quarter’s Al-Khuzama Park, a famous green space in Riyadh at Wadi Hanifah, and is one of the 14 zones of Riyadh Season. It fuses entertainment with hospitality, together with an indoor and outdoor experience, to put a smile on people’s faces. Owner Siham Hassanain said people were visiting The Groves to enjoy the special Ramadan experience they had missed out on for the past two years. The Groves in Ramadan is not restricted to dining, entertainment, and hospitality. There is a “fashion passion” zone where people can shop for exclusive collections from sought-after local and international designers. “We have been deprived of gathering and living (our) Ramadan moments with our loved ones for two years because of the pandemic. Today, people want to go out and see other people and gather, whether with friends, family or for a business breakfast,” she told Arab News. Visitors to The Groves during Riyadh Season would have seen an emphasis on outdoor spaces with fireplaces to keep people warm in the winter, with many artists playing live music. However, in Ramadan, the place has been covered up to become more of an indoor experience because of the heat of spring. Upon entering, visitors can see Saudi coffee being poured. The heady aroma of bukhoor wafts through the space and the sound of a stream can be heard.   Hassanain made sure that everyone walking into The Groves could indulge all of their senses. “It’s a whole experience here. When you come to have iftar, there are two tents. The first one is the first iftar zone where the visitor can sit and break their fast with Saudi coffee, dates, and yogurt. It’s in our Saudi culture to break the fast with coffee and dates. “Then they can go to pray and come to the second iftar tent, which is for the buffet and the performances.”   Hassanain said The Groves was a zone from Riyadh Season. But the General Entertainment Authority contacted her about extending it to cover Ramadan, making it the only zone with this privilege. “You can't imagine the pride I had when the GEA contacted me and said that my zone is in demand, which was a joyful moment for me, and I always like to challenge myself.” The challenge was how to transform the theme from Riyadh Season to Ramadan. Hassanain said it was a daunting moment as the team only had 12 hours to change the vibe.   “On a regular day, The Groves opens at 4:00 p.m. But we came from 6:00 a.m. to shift the theme and the construction to build Ramadan indoor tents, changing the menus to oriental and Arabic mixed with international cuisine that fits with the vibes of Ramadan, and installing AC. It was a lot of work because at 3:00 p.m. we had to stop the construction before people came. But we did it.” The makeover also led to changes in the app because, unlike the other zones in Riyadh Season, The Groves has a standalone app that lets people make a booking and pay for the ticket online. The Groves in Ramadan is not restricted to dining, entertainment, and hospitality. There is a “fashion passion” zone where people can shop for exclusive collections from sought-after local and international designers. It also has a spa where people can unwind and get pampered after iftar.