DUBAI: A design by up-and-coming Egyptian accessories label Aliel was spotted on US singer and songwriter Janelle Monae this week as she stepped out in New York City to promote her new book “The Memory Librarian: And Other Stories of Dirty Computer.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The hitmaker was photographed out and about in the Big Apple carrying the brand’s Jalila bag in black. Crafted in Egypt from high-quality leather, the Jalila bag features a rectangle shape with an asymmetrical square stud-embellished top handle. It also boasts a detachable silver chain strap, so it can be worn both as a cross-body or a clutch. The 36-year-old paired the handbag with a white latex dress with black collars, fishnet stockings and a matching black and white coat. A pair of dark-tinted round glasses and patent leather Christian Louboutin platform heels completed her look.   Monae is known for her edgy, rule-breaking style and nearly exclusive black and white wardrobe. In fact, a quick Google search of the singer brings up the frequently asked question: “Why does Janelle Monae wear only black and white?” The reason is a touching one. She revealed in an interview with Access Hollywood that her sartorial choices are inspired by her working-class parents. Her mom was a janitor and her father was a truck driver. “They wore uniforms and so I wore black and white as my own uniform to pay homage to them,” she told the publication. “That was my first inspiration.” Gradually, Monae began to introduce more color into her striking red carpet looks, however, she has always remained true to her black and white palette. Meanwhile, Aliel — the designer’s name spelled backward — was founded by Cairo-based designer Leila Abo Tira in 2017. A post shared by ALIEL (@aliel_official) The marketing graduate, who hails from a family who have been in the leather-manufacturing business for decades, has released a number of handcrafted collections. “I always dreamed that one day Aliel would be celebrated globally,” Abo Tira told Arab News in a previous interview. And it appears that the dream has come to fruition as the rising Egyptian label has been championed by a number of global superstars, including beauty mogul Kylie Jenner, Joey King and Sofia Richie.