JEDDAH: In recognition of the services that Saudi hospitals are providing, an art exhibition and workshop were organized at Jeddah’s Gardenia Residential Complex on Saturday with 22 artists from Egypt, Yemen, India and Saudi Arabia. Under the theme “Our old neighborhood’s doors,” the three-day outdoor event, organized by the Art Harmony gallery, was a sign of appreciation for the King Fahd Armed Forces Hospital. The inaugural day was attended by the Japanese consul general in Jeddah, Izuru Shimmura. Saudi princess and poet “Jawharat Al-Sahra” was an honorary guest at the event. The idea of the workshop and exhibition began after an artist’s mother received extensive care at KFAFH before she died. Some ten days after her loss, Matluba Qurban told fellow artists about the excellent medical services her mother had received at the hospital. Asking Allah for mercy for Qurban’s mother, colleagues expressed their desire to offer a gesture of loyalty to KFAFH and its healthcare workers through an artistic workshop, with all paintings to be gifted to the medical institution to add an aesthetic touch to the hospital corridors. Qurban, one of the organizers, said that 22 artists of both genders took part in the exhibition and workshop. “Their paintings, which bring back our beautiful old neighborhoods, will be presented to the KFAFH officials who have allocated a place in the hospital for the artworks to be hung. It was really nice of the KFAFH to accept our initiative,” she said. She said that several renowned Saudi artists, such as Amal Felimban, Fahad Turkistani and Abdullah Al-Sulaimani, participated in the exhibition and workshop. Dr. Khalid Aql, a co-organizer, told Arab News that the artists had insisted on expressing their gratitude to the hospital. “The message of art is basically human. We, as artists, are always present at the occasions where a service provider is honored for their exceptional performance,” Aql said. He said that the participating artists had been keen to take part in the workshop, adding that their artworks would be displayed in a distinguished health service-providing institution. Jawharat Al-Sahra told Arab News that hospitals deserved tribute for the services they provided to patients. “These artists have devotedly gathered to show respect and appreciation to our hospitals, represented here by KFAFH. We are, in fact, proud of these advanced healthcare facilities that provide health services to both Saudis and residents,” the princess said. 