LONDON: We’re at the halfway point of Ramadan, and it’s important to ensure that you’re looking after your health throughout the last two weeks. The decreased amount of food, water and energy will undoubtedly have an effect on you, and you need to take care of your body and mind now more than ever. To help you continue to feel great this Ramadan, Daniel Wells, online life coach and personal trainer, has put together a list of vitamins and supplements to make sure you are feeling and functioning at your best. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Evening primrose oil This may be one that you’re not familiar with, but it really does work. Your sleeping routine will most likely be a little erratic throughout Ramadan due to the early mornings and late evenings. Evening primrose oil will not only help you get off to sleep better; it also includes a vital fatty acid that helps balance hormone levels, which will aid in your quality of sleep too. As an added bonus, it also promotes healthy skin, helps joint pain and stiffness, alleviates menstrual pains and even fights against osteoporosis. Vitamin K2 We’re learning more and more about the necessity of a healthy gut, as well as the dangers of a bad diet, which can lead to an unhealthy gut and the knock-on effects this can have on your health. Vitamin K2 is a nutrient that is produced by healthy intestinal bacteria and can also be found in fermented foods and animal products. Working on your diet to increase good bacteria and maintain a healthy gut can have a significant impact on your life and wellbeing. Vitamin K2 helps with blood sugar regulation, promotes bone strength, increases testosterone, decreases wrinkles in the skin and can help prevent cancer too. Vitamin D3 Vitamin D3 not only helps to maintain your immune system, but it also helps to keep your bones and muscles in good condition. It has also been proven to aid in the prevention of depression, inflammatory disease and cardiovascular disease. This Ramadan, if vitamin D3 isn’t already a part of your regular nutrition regime, it should be. Apple cider vinegar Packed full of powerful antioxidants, this supplement can aid in supporting digestion and weight management and improve your overall energy levels. This super liquid enhances general health in a variety of ways. It balances alkaline pH levels, and most of the time we’re more acidic than alkaline, due to poor diet. It also kills off bad bacteria in the gut. It is best mixed with a small amount of fruit juice and can be consumed daily. Protein supplement (shake or bar) You may be doing slightly less activity and likely eating less during Ramadan, which can cause muscle atrophy. It has been proven that increasing the protein content in one’s diet can help prevent muscle atrophy, so adding a protein shake or bar a day can be really beneficial. Don’t forget that an increase in protein also helps speed up recovery, gives our metabolism a boost and aids in fat loss. Protein bars and shakes taste great too, helping you to curb cravings.