RIYADH: Musaed Al-Dossary has become famous as one of the world’s top FIFAe players, having been crowned world champion in 2018 at the age of 18. One esports expert even wondered if the young Saudi could be the best player the global competition scene has ever seen. Now, the story of how the player, who goes by the moniker of MS Dossary, became a gaming legend is being told in a new documentary, “Unfold,” which premiered during a ceremony held in his presence at Muvi Cinemas on Riyadh Boulevard on April 18. The film was screened in the presence of Prince Faisal bin Bandar bin Sultan, the president of Saudi Arabia’s esports federation, vice president of the International Esports Federation, representatives of the Saudi federation, players, influential personalities, and media professionals, and includes an interview with Al-Dossary. The documentary comes within the framework of the “Unfold” series of short documentaries on Red Bull Gaming on YouTube, which sheds light on elite esports stars, delves into aspects of the players’ public and private lives, and looks at the circumstances that accompanied their launch to prominence on the world stage. It tells the story of a young Saudi man who succeeds in turning the dream of every boy who loves football, and gaming, into reality. Running for almost 15 minutes, the short movie begins with the most prominent moments of glory that marked Al-Dossary’s career in the world of esports, with commentators astonished by his performance when he won the FIFAe Football World Cup. One expert in the field, said: “Are we in front of the greatest FIFA player? At all, and he’s only 21 years old?” The documentary also highlights the moments that made MS Dossary a world-famous name — known to stars such as Formula 1 world champion and Red Bull Racing driver Max Verstappen. And it touches on his childhood in Alkhobar where his love for everything related to football began, documenting his distinctive talent that emerged during his first match with friends, and his support for Saudi Pro League team Al-Ittihad.