RIYADH: Seven of the world’s leading automotive manufacturers have registered with the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile to race the new Gen3 car which will debut in the next season of the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship. The Gen3 race car will be officially unveiled to the public at the Yacht Club de Monaco on April 28 ahead of the Monaco E-Prix on April 30. FIA president, Mohammed Ben Sulayem, said: “We are delighted to confirm the commitment of seven of the world’s leading car manufacturers to the Gen3 era of the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship, and we look forward to seeing them battle against each other. “As a proving ground for future mobility, Formula E has always been at the cutting-edge of technology, as exemplified by the Gen3 single-seater, and we are confident that the forthcoming era will mark an exciting chapter in the series’ electrifying story.” The manufacturers currently confirmed for the Gen3 era of Formula E are DS Automobiles of France, the UK’s Jaguar, Mahindra Racing of India, Maserati of Italy, NIO 333 of the UK and China, Japanese firm Nissan, and Porsche of Germany. The full list of teams will be released later in 2022. When released, the Gen3 is set to be the world’s most efficient racing car – at least 40 percent of the energy used within a race will be produced by regenerative braking during the race. Jamie Reigle, chief executive officer of Formula E, said: “We are excited to welcome many of the world’s most innovative and competitive automotive manufacturers into the Gen3 era of the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship. “The Gen3 race car will take Formula E’s iconic city center racing to a new level, creating more intense action and drama on the track while delivering a leap forward in electric mobility off it. “The Gen3 race car will set the standard for sustainability, performance, and efficiency and serve as further tangible evidence of the innovative developments in electric vehicles achieved by manufacturers in the Championship,” he added.