RIYADH: Cybersecurity providers in Saudi Arabia have been urged to register their information as part of the Kingdom’s efforts to regulate the sector. The National CyberSecurity Authority made the call on Monday, saying it was to help safeguard the interests of consumers, enhance the level of service provided, and create a suitable ecosystem to attract and stimulate local and international investment in the sector. It also said that registration would be a regulatory requirement for any entity that provided cybersecurity solutions, services, or products in the Kingdom starting from Aug. 1st, 2022. • The authority said that registration would be a regulatory requirement for any entity that provided cybersecurity solutions, services, or products in the Kingdom starting from Aug. 1st, 2022. • It described the country’s cybersecurity sector as a ‘promising market, especially in light of the increasing demand for cybersecurity solutions, services, and products in public, private, and other entities.’’ It described the country’s cybersecurity sector as a “promising market, especially in light of the increasing demand for cybersecurity solutions, services, and products in public, private, and other entities.”   “This step will contribute to the implementation of the cybersecurity market and industry development initiative in the Kingdom as part of the national cybersecurity strategy aiming to support the growth of the sector in the Kingdom and encourage innovation and investment in it to reach a resilient, secure, and trusted Saudi cyberspace,” it added. Registration with the NCA is for any business, organization, or other body that provides cybersecurity solutions, services, or products. The NCA is in charge of cybersecurity in the Kingdom and is its national reference for cybersecurity affairs. It seeks to strengthen the cybersecurity sector to safeguard the Kingdom’s vital interests and national security and protect critical infrastructure, high-priority sectors, and government services in line with Vision 2030. It was established by royal decree in 2017 and is mandated to  implement the National Information Security Strategy, which formalizes a Kingdom-wide framework for cybersecurity, risk mitigation, and resilience via governance policies, standards, cyber defense operations, and  developing human capital and local industry capabilities.