NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe hopes that in seasons to come, games between Newcastle United and Liverpool will prove to be potential title-deciders for both teams and not, as is the case this season, just one of them.
The Reds travel to St. James’ Park on Saturday hoping to take another step forward in their quest for an unprecedented quadruple. Having already bagged the Carabao Cup, Jurgen Klopp’s men are still in the hunt for the top flight title, have booked their spot in the FA Cup final and have one foot in the Champions League final after a 2-0 victory over Villarreal at Anfield in the first leg of their semifinal midweek.
Newcastle’s ambitions are, for now, somewhat different. Howe was plunged into a relegation battle when he was appointed coach by the club’s new ownership late last year. While many, including Howe himself, predicted a fight for survival until the last day of the season, the turnaround in Newcastle’s fortunes under the former Bournemouth boss has been nothing short of spectacular.
Ten wins in their past 14 games has catapulted the Magpies from the prospect of a desperate fight for Premier League survival to the top half of the league and the fringes of the fight for European places.
Howe is hopeful that the seasons to come for Newcastle will be filled with glory and title successes, rather than merely hopes of survival.
“Hopefully it is in the future,” he said of a potential title decider one day between his team and Klopp’s.
“It’s very difficult to take yourself away from where we are right now; there’s no use or benefit in doing that. Hopefully, in the future it is something we aspire to be. But at the moment, we are where we are and we need to try to compete and give our best.
“My aim is to improve today, to be better tomorrow. Of course I am looking and planning for the future, as you have to do in my position. But to give direct timescales on anything in football is almost impossible. I think the search is for improvement from day one and I continue to do that until someone tells me not to.”
Next up after Liverpool’s visit to Tyneside this weekend, United will line up at the Etihad Stadium on May 8 to take on Manchester City, who currently sit top of the table a point ahead of the Reds. Therefore the Magpies could have a big say in the final destination of the top flight trophy this season. Howe was reluctant to make any prediction about the eventual champions, however.
“It’s very difficult to say. I think we’re very fortunate to see two outstanding teams fighting it out,” he said. “It’s great to see, as a neutral watching and learning from both teams. Tactically, they’re so different but so consistent and get incredible results.
“Liverpool and Manchester City are the two tests; the league table tells you that they give you the biggest examination. Our home form has been excellent. The atmosphere, the feel around the ground, has been absolutely brilliant to be a part of, and I anticipate the atmosphere tomorrow will be electric at the start of the game. We have to feed off that and try to use that to galvanize us against a world-class team.
“I won’t make a prediction but I’ll certainly enjoy watching.”