Riyadh: A “Mediathon” to address industry challenges in Saudi Arabia was launched on Monday by the Media Ministry, in collaboration with the stc group. The competition is open to individuals and companies and seeks to develop the performance of the country’s media sector. Industry professionals and specialists will compete to provide innovative projects and solutions that address sectoral challenges and develop traditional media presentation, media data collection, monitoring, bridge the gap between academic knowledge and professional practice, and develop international communication.   “The project serves as a link between the idea and the implementing body, increasing competition and creating teams competing to come up with ideas that help develop the media industry,” said Abdulrahman Majrashi, the director of public relations and partnerships at the ministry’s Center for Government Communication and Mediathon supervisor. He told Arab News that the project also sought to keep pace with media developments by presenting innovative ideas that contributed to the development process through the participation of talented people. The Ministry of Culture and Information announced the launch of the mediathon.media.gov.sa portal to receive ideas, creative solutions, and welcome competition participants. Ministry undersecretary Dr. Abdullah Al-Maghlouth said the project was important because it represented the link between the owners of ideas and the relevant authorities, and indicated teams' interests in enhancing the competition's impact through the development of submitted projects, public and virtual dialogue sessions during the submission period, dedicated participant workshops, and training and advisory sessions for outstanding teams once the competition was over. The CGC and stc signed a partnership agreement in Riyadh on Monday. Faisal Al-Bakri, vice president of the government sales sector at the stc business unit, spoke about the group's commitment to its role of digitally empowering vital sectors in the Kingdom. He said the collaboration with the Ministry of Culture and Information and the CGC in the Mediathon project reflected stc’s interest in developing the media industry and providing digital solutions to support the ministry's objectives. Dr. Majid Al-Qasabi, acting minister of culture and information, launched several media initiatives at the end of March, including the establishment of the Saudi National Media Archive Center, the establishment of a Saudi Media Museum to preserve and perpetuate national press heritage, and the second phase of a program to support and empower Saudi press institutions in their digital transformation.