DUBAI: “Rebel Moon,” Netflix’s highly anticipated sci-fi flick starring Sofia Boutella, has officially entered production. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The French-Algerian actress teased a first look at the film, including a peak of the set as well as the reveal of her co-star Djimon Hounsou in full costume. “Day 1 on Zack Snyder’s #RebelMoon,” Boutella captioned the images. A post shared by Sofia Boutella (@sofisia7) The first photo in the series was a black-and-white snap of Hounsou dressed as his character, Gen. Titus, in armor and with his face covered in grime and dirt. The costumes for the upcoming movie are the brainchild of Stephanie Portnoy Porter, known for his work on films including “Planet of the Apes” and “X-Men: Apocalypse.” Other photos showed the interior and exterior of what looked to be a spacecraft. According to the images, the ship was built outdoors in a desert setting. The Zack Snyder-directed film will center on Boutella, who is set to play the character Kora from a planet facing invasion by the armies of tyrant Belisarius. To save her home, Boutella sets off on a journey to neighboring planets in the hope of seeking out warriors to help protect her colony. The Algiers-born actress was given the film’s leading role after she impressed Snyder during their meeting. It will not be the first time Boutella has taken on the role of a sword-wielding extraterrestrial. The actress, who at the age of 10 fled to Paris with her family in 1992 during the Algerian civil war, is known for her breakout performance in the Oscar-nominated film “Star Trek Beyond” where she portrayed fierce alien warrior Jaylah. In January, Snyder shared the first “Rebel Moon” concept art on social media platform Vero, offering fans a look at his next project. The image depicted an army of multiple faceless characters holding weapons and walking together toward the camera. Fans predicted these were the force of belligerents threatening Kora’s home. Although “Rebel Moon” has officially entered its production phase a release date has not yet been given. The film is expected to premiere exclusively on Netflix.