CAIRO: The Russia-Ukraine conflict has had many negative effects on Arab countries, especially in terms of grain imports, said Arab League Secretary-General Ahmed Aboul Gheit. At a press conference with the Russian and Egyptian foreign ministers in Moscow, Aboul Gheit added that many Arab countries import wheat, cereals and grains in very large quantities from Russia. An Arab delegation comprising Aboul Gheit and the foreign ministers of Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Algeria and Sudan held talks in Moscow with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov before heading to Warsaw for talks with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba. The conflict has caused a steep rise in fuel and oil prices that has hindered development efforts and economic planning in many Arab countries, Aboul Gheit said. “Prices are rising in many parts in the Arab region, in a way that affects the welfare of the Arab citizen, and the matter leads to more negative effects,” he added. “We do not look at the matter only from the perspective of the Arabs … There is a sense of the need to defend peace and stability in the world and restore international conditions to their normal form.” Aboul Gheit said the Arab position “is summed up in supporting all efforts aimed at resolving the (Russia-Ukraine) crisis through dialogue and diplomacy, in a manner that preserves the security and safety of peoples in this important region of the world.” He stressed “respect for the principles of international law and the Charter of the United Nations.” Egypt’s Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry said in Moscow the delegation “expressed concern about the extension of the current crisis, and called on all parties involved in the conflict to stop escalation and not resort to military action ... We also stressed the immediate resort to peaceful solutions and diplomacy-based dialogue.” The delegation “affirmed its readiness to carry out mediation efforts and support the direct negotiation path between the two sides,” he added. “We also stressed the importance of coordination to maintain the security and safety of the Arab communities currently in the conflict zone, and to facilitate the transit of those wishing to flee to neighboring countries. “The two sides also discussed ways to overcome the economic consequences of this crisis and ensure that it does not affect the peoples of the region and beyond.”