LOS ANGELES: Will Smith has tendered his resignation from the body that awards the Oscars after his attack on Chris Rock during the weekend ceremony, a statement said on Friday. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “I am resigning from membership in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and will accept any further consequences the Board deems appropriate,” the actor wrote in a statement carried by multiple outlets. “My actions at the 94th Academy Awards presentation were shocking, painful, and inexcusable. “The list of those I have hurt is long and includes Chris, his family, many of my dear friends and loved ones, all those in attendance, and global audiences at home.” Attendees at the Dolby Theatre watched open-mouthed as Smith mounted the stage and slapped Rock across the face after the comic made a joke about his wife’s closely cropped head. Jada Pinkett Smith has alopecia, a condition that causes hair to fall out. He returned to his seat and shouted obscenities at Rock, who has been widely praised for keeping a cool head and getting things back on track. Half an hour after the astonishing attack, Smith was awarded the best actor Oscar for his role in sports biopic “King Richard.” There have been conflicting reports in recent days over whether Smith was asked to leave the ceremony, with the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences saying he refused to go. The group said this week it was starting disciplinary action against Smith – only the fifth Black man to win the movie world’s higest individual award for a man – and warned he could face a rare expulsion. But on Friday, Smith pre-empted that punishment. “I am resigning from membership in the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and will accept any further consequences the Board deems appropriate. “I want to put the focus back on those who deserve attention for their achievements and allow the Academy to get back to the incredible work it does to support creativity and artistry in film.