LONDON: Maserati is on track to make its debut in electric racing when it joins Season 9 of the ABB FIA Formula E World Championship with ROKiT Venturi Racing in Rome this weekend. Given the Italian roots of the brand, Maserati and ROKiT Venturi Racing have selected the Rome E-Prix to announce their multi-year partnership, united with a fighting spirit and a continued thirst for ground-breaking innovation. Maserati is the first Italian brand to participate in the Formula E championship and will make its debut on the starting grid with the new Gen3 car. Ahead of the Rome E-Prix, ROKiT Venturi Racing is leading the way in the two World Championships, for Teams and Drivers. Last season, the team's campaign was the most successful to date, taking two victories, five podiums and Swiss-Italian driver Edoardo Mortara finishing as runner-up in the standings. “Returning to motorsport with Formula E was a natural choice for Maserati,” Davide Grasso, Maserati CEO, said. “Indeed, we are driven by our passion and innovation and we’re happy to share this adventure with a partner that abides by the same values as we do and is looking ahead to the future, just like us. “We share with the ROKiT Venturi Racing team the same determination and desire to compete and win on circuits all over the world,” he added. Scott Swid, chairman and managing partner at ROKiT Venturi Racing, said: “Partnering with Maserati for Gen3 is brilliant news. It’s excellent for the team, for Maserati and Formula E, but above all else, it’s fantastic news for the fans who will witness the return of an iconic marque to top-tier motorsport. He continued: “Not only does this establish strong foundations for our long-term future in Formula E, but it also marks one of the most exciting stories in international sport in which a prestigious brand is returning to its roots by joining the most progressive and fastest-growing form of motorsport.” Susie Wolff, CEO and managing partner and former team principal at ROKiT Venturi Racing, added: “Uniting with Maserati marks the start of a new chapter and represents the best possible outcome for the team following our successful partnership with Mercedes. “Being entrusted with the return of one of motorsport’s most recognisable brands to international single-seater competition underlines our success in recent seasons in which we have firmly established ourselves as a commercially viable, race-winning team that can seriously contend for championships. “With this commitment, the team is now in a fantastic position to contest Formula E’s next generation of competition which will commence in 2023,” she added. Jean-Marc Finot, Senior VP, STELLANTIS Motorsport, said: “We are delighted to partner Formula E Maserati with ROKiT Venturi Racing, one of the most competitive teams in the championship, it is a real asset for Maserati to rely on Venturi expertise. “We think that the collaboration of Maserati design skills and Venturi racing capabilities and experience will deliver a very efficient package. Our common DNA and passion for performance will unite the team.”