DUBAI: The transformative powers of eyelash extensions are undeniable. Few beauty treatments have the instant ability to add depth and intensity to your eyes like the semi-permanent lash-boosting procedure. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle It’s no wonder then that Arab women, with their unmatched penchant for full-blown glamour, have added them to their beauty routine. Extensions are ideal for those who want dark, voluminous lashes without the fuss of mascara. However, if not applied correctly, eyelash extensions can be a total disaster. Think permanent hair loss and allergic reactions. This is why it’s crucial to choose a salon equipped with top quality products and leading aestheticians not only certified to carry out the procedure, but with years of knowledge and experience behind them. This is why Dubai-based entrepreneur Joud Odeh decided to launch Brau, a premium beauty destination known for delivering the highest level of service and expertise when it comes to grooming treatments like microblading, eyelash extensions, semi-permanent makeup and eyebrow tinting. Brau, which recently opened a second location in That Concept Store at Dubai’s Mall of the Emirates, prides itself on being one of the most innovative beauty studios in the UAE. Focused on creating tailored bespoke services for all of its clients, Brau has quickly become one of the most popular beauty destinations in the region for women seeking bold enviable eyebrows and full, fluttery eyelashes.  All of the technicians have years of international training under their belt to make sure you get the lashes you’ve always dreamed of. Brau offers both quick and hassle-free eyelash extensions where the technician attaches small clusters of three to five false lashes at a time to your own natural lash line, as well as the longer and more precise full set, which involves the therapist painstakingly applying one synthetic hair fiber at a time for the most natural results. There are plenty of styles, including the elongating “cat-eye” and the Kardashian-approved “doll eye,” to choose from. Following a quick consultation where the aesthetician will take a look at a customer’s natural set, in order to create a bespoke look specifically tailored to suit them, the technician will mix extensions of varying lengths — the fibers range from 6 millimeters to 16 millimeters — based on the client’s eye shape and desired outcome. If properly cared for, eyelash extensions can last up to a month. To prolong the results, it’s recommended to avoid putting oil-based products on the lashes, gently removing eye makeup, and combing them out regularly with a spoolie, which the technician will provide following the treatment. Brau boasts seven different eyelash extension procedures on its extensive menu, including lower lash extensions for an instant eye-opening effect. Colorful eyelashes are currently having a moment, so those who wish to give the 2022 beauty trend a try will be pleased to know that the salon offers an ombre lash treatment, which allows customers to add pops of purple, green or brown to the tip of a set of lash extensions. To book online, visit https://brau.ae/services/lashes-treatment/#onlinebookings.