DUBAI: Reality TV star Kendall Jenner was spotted this week championing yet another Arab designer, Amina Muaddi. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 26-year-old supermodel shared a series of images on her Instagram account wearing the Romanian- Jordanian footwear designer’s Lupita glass slippers. The second-youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner clan paired the heels with a form-fitting white dress that featured blue and grey patterns. Jenner topped off her look with a turquoise purse that she held on her shoulder.   The catwalk star had her hair slick-backed, with a braided ponytail.
This is not the first time the “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” star wears Muaddi’s heels. She has been photographed wearing the brand’s designs on several occasions, including the Begum and Gilda shoes. A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) In 2020, eagle-eyed fans spotted the model wearing the designer’s plexiglass Begum slingbacks at the BRIT Awards afterparty. That same year, she was also seen in New York in a coordinating hot pink outfit wearing gem-encrusted heels. The 34-year-old designer, who grew up in Italy, launched her eponymous footwear line in August 2018, approximately one year after departing from her role as co-founder and creative director of luxury footwear label Oscar Tiye. Since then, her label’s distinct pumps, sling-backs, mules, boots and sandals in an array of vibrant colors and holographic designs have garnered a loyal checklist of famous fans, including Dua Lipa, Gigi Hadid, Kylie Jenner and Hailey Bieber Baldwin. A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) One of her most loyal fans is Barbadian singer-turned-entrepreneur and mom-to-be Rihanna. She has an unparalleled collection of heels by Muaddi, which have become her go-to choice of footwear whether she is attending lavish red-carpet events, fundraising galas, taking an off-duty stroll or stepping out to dinner. Recently, the music sensation and founder of the Fenty empire has been rocking Muaddi’s creations as part of her head-turning maternity style. A post shared by AMINA MUADDI (@aminamuaddi) In October, the footwear creator landed a spot on Women’s Wear Daily and Footwear News’ 50 Most Powerful Women list. She also debuted a range of jewelry and handbags in 2020 and collaborated with Austrian brand Wolford on an exclusive 17-piece capsule collection of ready-to-wear looks in 2021.