DUBAI: Palestinian-Dutch supermodel Bella Hadid is getting a starring role in the third season of Hulu’s “Ramy” in what will be the catwalk star’s television series acting debut. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The details about Hadid’s character in the show are yet to be revealed. “Ramy,” starring comedian Ramy Youssef, is about an Egyptian-American living in New Jersey who is determined to become a better Muslim as he grows into an adult, often stumbling along the way. A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) The show also stars British-Syrian actor Laith Nakli, Palestinian star Hiam Abbass, Egyptian actor Amr Waked, “Moon Knight” actress May Calamawy, Canadian-Lebanese comedian Dave Merheje, Palestinian-American talent Mohammed Amer and US actor Steve Way. Season One of the series was an outsized success, netting Youssef — who is the writer, director, creator and executive producer of the show — a Golden Globe for Best Actor and an international following. In the second season, Ramy digs deeper into his Muslim faith, introducing a charismatic new imam named Sheik Ali, played by Oscar-winner Mahershala Ali, with whom Ramy quickly bonds. A post shared by ramy youssef (@ramy) Hadid has walked for some of the top fashion brands in the world, including Burberry, Off-White, Fendi, Versace, Givenchy, Max Mara, Moschino and many more. She has fronted multiple covers in France, Italy, UK, Japan, China and other countries. She also hops on various business ventures. In September 2021, she joined Kin Euphorics, a tonic and wellness drink brand, as co-founder and partner. A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) Kin Euphorics, founded by Saudi Arabia-raised Jen Batchelor, is a non-alcoholic tonic that was “made to transform the world’s oldest social ritual, drinking, into a conscious act of better being,” as per the beverage brand’s official website. In a 2017 interview with Porter magazine, Hadid talked about her father, Mohamed Hadid, and her faith. “He was always religious, and he always prayed with us. I am proud to be a Muslim,” she said.