NEWCASTLE: Chris Wood is determined to put fears about Newcastle United’s Premier League future to bed — and do it at St. James’ Park.
The New Zealander finally hit the back of the net on Tyneside from the penalty spot in Friday evening’s 1-0 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers.
It was just his second goal in 12 outings since making a big money switch from relegation rivals Burnley in January.
The result took the Magpies one step closer to ensuring they remain a top flight team next season, having been 19th in the table and staring the Championship in the face when Wood arrived in the winter window.
The striker is keen to use the next two home games against Leicester City (April 17) and Crystal Palace (April 20) to cement top flight football for next season.
“It is one step closer, another couple of wins will do it,” said the 30-year-old.
“We have some big games coming up here at St. James’ Park over the next few weeks, so we have enough opportunities to put it right, sooner rather than later.
“It is nice to be back to winning ways. The bounce back is what we needed. The two games before Tottenham we played well. Tottenham was a blip in the second half. It was not like us, so it’s nice to come back to St. James’ Park and put on a performance like that.
“We changed tactics. We look at every game on its merit — and the gaffer puts together a strategy. We got picked apart by Tottenham, that’s us not sticking to our game plan. Against Wolves we did that and reaped the rewards,” he said.
It has not been plain sailing for Wood since he arrived on Tyneside in a deal worth around $32 million ($41.658 million) midway through the January window.
Friday night’s strike was, as mentioned, the first time he had scored at St. James’ Park, and only his second in black and white, despite starting every one of the 12 games played since his arrival.
Wood said: “It is nice to get off the mark at St. James’. It has been a long time coming but the chances haven’t been free-flowing for me. It is nice to be able to stick the ball in the back of the net.
“It is your job as a striker to take it (pressure) on board. I try to embrace it. I have done it many times in my career — many, many times — and I will have to do it again and again in crucial, vital moments.”
Wood was at the center of Video Assistant Referee controversies throughout the encounter, with two checks on the game’s two key incidents involving him.
The first saw a goal ruled out for an offside in the buildup, while the other one went the striker’s way as he was felled in the penalty area, before claiming the winner from the spot.
Reflecting on the drama, Wood told NUFC TV: “Looking back, it is one of those, just offside. It happens, that’s football.
“I would have loved it to have stood as well but in the end we got the right result.
“On the penalty, I knew it was going to be tight. I knew the ‘keeper was coming and I had to get the ball around him. He was coming strong, so I knew there was a strong chance of contact. I got to the ball first and it got given.”