RIYADH: The 2022 World Cup suddenly feels a lot closer after the draw on Friday in Doha. Here are 5 things that Arab nations possibly learned from the big event. 1. A chance for Qatar to progress No World Cup host wants to exit at the first round — just ask South Africa — but Qatar will be satisfied with their chances in Group A in terms of opposition and schedule. The opening game against Ecuador is going to be huge and the South Americans may just be the perfect opposition and ideal opportunity to start with three points. The biggest issue the hosts may have is one of pressure: This is their first-ever World Cup game, they are playing at home, and they have to win to progress. Then there is a meeting with Senegal as the Asian champions take on their African counterparts in what is sure to be a tricky tie. This is what World Cups are made of, however, and it will go some way to showing what Qatar are made of. Whatever happens, the Maroons need points on the board before ending with the glamour game against the Netherlands. Coach Felix Sanchez will be hoping that the Dutch are already through by this stage and resting players but whatever the situation, this is a chance for Qatar to play one of the world’s biggest and most famous national teams in a competitive tournament on home soil. 2. Morocco better placed than last time In 2018, the North Africans had to deal with Spain, Portugal and Iran. This Group F looks a little easier. An opener against Croatia will be fascinating especially as the 2018 finalists are not at the same level these days. Morocco will fancy their chances of getting off to a decent start especially if they can field all of their European stars such as Hakim Ziyech and Noussair Mazraoui. The big match comes against Belgium, a team that spent much of the past few years ranked number one in the world. A look at their players shows why but while respect will be necessary, the days of the Atlas Lions fearing such teams is, or should be over. What is obviously necessary is that Vahid Halilhodzic’s men must control their destiny going into the final game against Canada. Any underestimation of the North Americans would obviously be foolish but this is a game that Morocco should, and will probably have to win if they are to have any hopes of reaching the second round for the second time. 3. Tunisia have their work cut out Tunisia have made five appearances at the World Cup but have never survived the group stage. It is hard to see that happening this time around as Group D has two very tough European teams and the much-vaunted Tunisian defense is going to be tested to the max. Denmark come first, a hard-working, well-organized and physically tough side that reached the last four of the European Championships last year, and won their qualification group easily. The hope lies in the second game which many in the region hope will come against the UAE. If not, it will be either Australia or Peru. Regardless of the opposition, this will be a winnable fixture, and has to be one. Not least because defending champions France are last up. There are obviously ties between the countries and the players but there will be no quarter given on the pitch. It could be an epic showdown, though, and just like Qatar with the Netherlands, it may happen that France are already through and will be looking toward the knockout stages. But then again, in recent tournaments, champions have tended to fall at the first hurdle. 4. UAE know what awaits If there was any need for more motivation for the UAE ahead of their June playoff against Australia and then, possibly, Peru, it is there in black and white in Group D. If they manage to make it to Qatar then the Whites will take on the defending champions in their first World Cup game for 32 years. Facing France really would get the juices flowing and get fans making the short trip to Doha in big numbers. Then there would be the only — in the group stage at least — Arab derby against Tunisia. The Africans would be favorites but may struggle to take the game to the Asian side. It would be a fascinating clash. And it would all end with Denmark, a team that never gives less than 100 percent and would look upon the UAE as a three-point banker. Nobody would expect them to get through. For a team that won just three out of 10 in the last round of qualification, it really would be about just being there and the pressure would be off. The chance to face world-class stars like Kylian Mbappe, Paul Pogba and more besides, as well as a fellow Arab team, would be a perfect way to end the year. 5. A decent draw all round As always, some matchups are more exciting than others but take away the four Arab teams and there is still plenty to talk about. Iran find themselves in a fascinating Group B with the US, England and potentially Ukraine. Germany and Spain will face off in Group E with Japan adding an extra spice, while there is a geographically pleasing spread in Group H with Portugal, Uruguay, South Korea and Ghana all representing one confederation each. It should be remembered that there are always surprises. Last time around Germany finished bottom of their group and this time Italy have not even qualified. There is always room for an unfancied outsider to shock. Fans in the Arab world will be hoping that happens.