DUBAI: Part-Saudi supermodel Shanina Shaik was spotted looking chic at the 2022 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival at the Empire Polo Club in Indio, California. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The catwalk star, who is of Saudi, Lithuanian, Pakistani and Australian descent, attended the first weekend of the festival with appearances at concerts and afterparties. The event takes place from April 15 to 17 and April 22 to 24 with a star-studded setlist. For the Neon Festival party, where Doja Cat, Leonardo DiCaprio and Saweetie were all in attendance, the 31-year-old looked cool and relaxed wearing a white denim jacket and a vintage graphic t-shirt tucked into slim fit jeans and a pair of Vans.   Shaik also attended the Swedish House Mafia “Paradise Again” album release party with Spotify Live from the desert at Zenyara. The model opted for a triple-denim ensemble in the form of a Retrofete crop top and a high-waisted pair of jeans from Vintage Twin that perfectly matched her jacket. She completed the look with Sam Edelman cowboy boots. On Friday, Shaik shared a black-and-white image on Instagram and wrote: “COACHELLA. it’s been too long.” The festival is known for birthing some of the boldest festival ensembles. Celebrities have time and time again showed up decked out in head-turning outfits that range from boho-chic to eclectic. A post shared by SHANINA SHAIK (@shaninamshaik) The model posted more snaps from the first weekend of the popular festival, which was cancelled for two years due to the pandemic, on her Instagram Stories and feed, offering her 2.7 million followers a glimpse at her wardrobe. She showed off a retro, 70s-inspired outfit that included a plunging, tie-dye blouse from Lovers and Friends tucked into a pair of high-waisted denim Grlfrnd shorts. She completed the look with denim cowboy boots from R13 and a white Byfar handbag. Also among her inimitable lineup of festival outfits was a graphic corset paired with loose black jeans and matching black Vans. Shaik made sure to share videos of performances from hit-makers Justin Bieber, Harry Styles and Doja Cat on her Instagram Stories as well. “I had to be close,” she captioned a video on her Instagram Stories of Doja Cat’s performance on Sunday night. A number of big names had turned out for the music festival’s first weekend, including Kendall and Kylie Jenner, Hailey Bieber, Halsey, Jared Leto, and Blackpink’s Jenny, among others.