RIYADH: Tarahum — the National Committee for the Welfare of Prisoners and Their Families — and the Mybicycle Association launched a nationwide “cycling rally” on April 20 to raise money for the families of prisoners. The event is part of the Mybicycle Association’s Ramadan campaign “Your Giving Opens the Doors of Life.” More than 180 cyclists around the Kingdom participated in the rally, which is intended to raise money for and awareness of the challenges faced by prisoners’ families, who can suffer financial, social, and other setbacks when someone is incarcerated. Abdulaziz Al-Zougibi, director of public relations and media for Tarahum, told Arab News: “Tarahum has 15 branches around the Kingdom and provides material and moral support to the families of prisoners and (ex-convicts).” “Every year, Tarahum conducts a campaign in Ramadan, and donations go to the families of prisoners to help improve their living conditions; some of them suffer from a lack of financial capacity.” The rally took place simultaneously in six regions: Jeddah, Riyadh, Madinah, Al-Jouf, Hail, and Tabuk. It lasted for an hour and a half, during which the riders traveled more than 60 kilometers. “These days, prisoners live a comfortable life in prison,” Al-Zougibi said. “The people who suffer are the prisoner’s family. This situation must be addressed.” He explained that 39 percent of ex-convicts end up returning to prison, and suggested that if their families were more stable, both socially and financially, when they were released, this percentage would be significantly lower. Adel Al-Shehri, the leader of Mybicycle group in Riyadh, said: “Our role in the campaign is to spread awareness, because we have brothers and friends in prison, and we do not want to forget them.” He added that the group had raised SR7,500 ($2,000) for prisoners’ families. Turki Al-Mafraj, one of the volunteers, said he had been riding with Mybicyle since 2014 and that he “loved” volunteering with the group. “I had diabetes and high blood pressure and cholesterol, so I joined the group in order to get healthy. I came today for the love of sports and for the love of volunteering. We always participate in volunteer cycling, and it is an honor for us to participate in this rally.”