Young Saudis have proven their talents and creativity in poetry and the arts through the launch of a new monthly event for creatives in Riyadh.
The American Chamber of Commerce in Saudi Arabia hosted the first “4W” event for the creative community, showcasing young Saudi artistic talent in collaboration with Huna space in the Panorama Mall on Wednesday. 
The artistic backdrop of Huna — which is a community-oriented, talent-driven space — served as the perfect stage for a night of music, poetry and interaction with the creative community in Riyadh.  
The event hosted a gallery for artists to display and sell their art from canvases and stickers to magazines and kids’ books.
4W is a community for creative expression meeting up every fourth Wednesday of the month. The programming is coordinated by Project T22, a platform that enables youth through community engagement that is centered on the values of optimism, empathy and cultural soundness. • 4W is a community for creative expression meeting up every fourth Wednesday of the month. • Music, spoken word, comedy, poetry and an art exhibition were all part of the event’s diverse roster. Maan Algarzae, a young Saudi who co-founded Project T22, expressed his gratitude for collaborating with the community, adding the inaugural 4W event proved to be a success with an engaging atmosphere, attendees and acts that created the perfect energy for the evening.
“I was privileged to assist in the organization of this event on behalf of Project T22 and to urge young Saudis like myself to engage with AmChamKSA’s worldwide network.”
Music, spoken word, comedy, poetry and an art exhibition were all part of the event’s diverse roster. 
Gimmix, a local rock band, and Paradise, a local vocalist, kicked things off with a short concert. Following that, Sheikha Al-Dossary, the host, produced a performance that allowed a diverse collection of Saudi women to express themselves through Arabic and French songs.
WarmBlue Collective, a group of young Saudis who created a zine and art movement with local coming-of-age stories, also performed a spoken word performance for the audience.
Tala Al-Hazmi, editor and chief of WarmBlue Collective magazine, told Arab News that she was happy to be invited to showcase her work.