DUBAI: Emirati womenswear label Lili Blanc has revealed its 2022 ready-to-wear collection, titled “Dream in a City,” at Arab Fashion Week, which took place in the Dubai Design District on March 26. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “This fashion ramp is a milestone in the journey of every regional fashion brand as it opens up to an exciting new world that rethinks Arab fashion. As a creative entrepreneur, this opportunity is value-adding in terms of authenticity in channels, target clientele and exposure,” the brand’s founder and Creative Director Sabrina Mouhieddine told Arab News.   “I’m truly humbled and excited to know that the collection that’s meant to inspire women across boundaries will reach a larger audience and take the designs and brand name beyond the Middle East,” the Lebanese designer added. The collection artistically articulates ideas of determination and freedom through its intersection between everyday wear and classics, portraying the success of women who like to dream big. Elevated silhouettes, tailored pieces, dresses, crop tops, strong collars and pantsuits in bold and classic color schemes punctuate the new collection, which embodies sophistication and comfort.   The new offering also introduced new plus sizes, an inclusive step for the brand. All of the pieces that make up the collection are produced locally in the UAE, as the designer prioritizes the ethical and social responsibility of creating and producing her garments. The brand was founded in the UAE in 2020, during the peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, with a debut collection titled “Hope.” Mouhieddine hasn’t always been a fashion designer. Born and raised in Lebanon, the creative kicked off her career in the corporate world after obtaining a degree in political and administrative science, later relocating to Dubai aged 24.   After living in the UAE for nearly a decade, she noticed a gap in comfortable and trendy workwear for working women, leading her to quit her corporate job and pursue a career in fashion. She studied fashion design at the renowned Esmod Dubai before she began working on her first collection for Lili Blanc during lockdown. The designer named her brand after her favorite type of flowers, lilies, which symbolize rebirth.