RIYADH: Stage hits from some of the West End and Broadway’s biggest musicals thrilled capacity audiences during a series of Culture Square performances at Riyadh Front. Classics from “The Phantom of the Opera,” “Cats,” “Les Miserables,” “Mamma Mia” and “Wicked” came to life as Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Culture hosted “Magnificent Broadway” at the capital’s performance venue. And it’s not only audiences who were thrilled by the production. “We are very excited to bring what we love doing to Saudi Arabia,” Madalena Alberto, one of the four international performers, told Arab News. “We are also excited to see the culture growing so much in this country and to be inspired by it as well,” the actress and singer said. Alberto joined Tim Howar, John Addison and Laura Tebbutt on stage to perform classic themes from some of Broadway and the West End’s best-loved shows. The four performers were accompanied by a live Broadway orchestra led by musical director Jon Ranger. The shows ended with performances from ‘Les Miserables’ and a ‘Mamma Mia’ song that had audiences dancing and clapping. “We go through all the greatest hits of Broadway and the West End. It’s a roller-coaster ride and fantastic — all the musical hits that you could possibly want to hear,” Addison said. Howar and Tebbutt were transformed into the Phantom and Christine Daae, respectively, for “The Phantom of the Opera” segment. Alberto, playing Fantine in “Les Miserables,” delivered an emotional performance of “I Dreamed a Dream” and ‘On my Own.” The four performers then gathered center stage to perform the show’s finale “One Day More.” In an interview with Arab News, the cast commented on the cultural diversity they had seen during the Cultural Square performances. “We just had ballet and jazz performances all in one building in one night. Where else can you do that? You can’t do that anywhere else,” Howar said. “If you want all the culture in one place in one night, you’re in the right place. I’m very excited to be part of it,” he added. “It’s my first time in Saudi Arabia, and it’s beyond my expectations. It’s wonderful to see how much amazing architecture there is going on here, what an amazing musical scene there is, and how much culture there is here. And it’s much better weather than in the United Kingdom. I’ll take it any day of the week.” The four performers were accompanied by a live Broadway orchestra led by musical director Jon Ranger. The shows ended with performances from “Les Miserables” and a “Mamma Mia” song that had audiences dancing and clapping. UKNY Music Ltd. partnered with the Ministry of Culture to bring the “Magnificent Broadway” and “A Night with Jose Carreras” shows to life at Cultural Square. “We’ve been working for about 18 months to get the shows together. We had Jose Carreras last week and now “Magnificent Broadway,” Oli Sones, general manager for UKNY Music, said. “It’s just great to offer audiences a little taste of Broadway or a taste of classical music with great singers,” he added. Organizers said that they are looking forward to bringing more shows to the Kingdom in future.