LONDON: A Palestinian-American journalist was on Monday allowed to enter Lebanon after being held at Beirut airport and threatened with deportation. Lebanese authorities arrested Nada Homsi claiming there was an outstanding ban against her entering the country. The freelance journalist, who works for US-based news outlets, was returning from America when Lebanese General Security Directorate officers stopped her at the airport. She was eventually allowed into Lebanon after repeatedly refusing to be expelled. In a tweet following her release, Homsi said: “A few minutes ago I was released from the airport. I still don’t know why I was banned in the first place but thank you to everyone who supported and advocated for my release. I love this community of amazing people in Lebanon. Thank you.” A few minutes ago I was released from the airport! I still don’t know why I was banned in the first place but THANK YOU to everyone who supported and advocated for my release. I love this community of amazing people in Lebanon. Thank you pic.twitter.com/TuXKGq2Qyg — Nada Homsi (@no_homsi) April 11, 2022 During her incarceration, Homsi released a video on social media demanding an explanation from Lebanese authorities for her entry ban. Human rights groups such as Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch, along with a number of activists and journalists, condemned her arrest and called for her immediate and unconditional release. In a tweet, journalist and co-founder of independent digital media platform Daraj, Diana Moukalled, said: “Lebanese authorities arrested Nada Homsi, again. She’s still detained without clear charges against her. Why is this escalating arbitrary approach by General Security taking place?” للمرة الثانية في الساعات الاخيرة يحتجز الأمن العام الصحافية ندى حمصي في المطار وهي لاتزل موقوفة دون سبب واضح.
لماذا هذا النهج التعسفي المتصاعد من قبل الأمن العام؟؟ https://t.co/lQKCkbl8k7 — ديانا مقلد Diana Moukalled (@dianamoukalled) April 11, 2022 In a statement, the Alternative Press Syndicate in Lebanon said: “The Lebanese General Security arrested the American journalist of Palestinian and Syrian decent, Nada Homsi, upon her arrival in Beirut on her return from the US this morning. “The Alternative Press Syndicate calls on the Lebanese General Security to reverse the illegal deportation decision immediately, to allow her to enter Lebanese territory, and to respect her right to reside in Lebanon, as she is married to a Palestinian with a Lebanese mother.” It was the second time Homsi had been arbitrarily detained in Lebanon after the directorate led a raid on her home in November and imprisoned her for 26 days. 