RIYADH: Nonprofit associations in Saudi Arabia, especially charitable organizations, are using the holy month of Ramadan to achieve their goals. Sa3ee (Sa’i) for Rehabilitation and Employment for Disabilities launched its third Ghaith initiative on Friday to contribute to the rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities in the Kingdom. The initiative aims to support these people through courses, training programs, and psychosocial counseling from a specialist team throughout the month, according to Marzouq Al-Otaibi, chairman of sa3ee. A lecture called “Sensing Blessings” took place during the inauguration of the Ghaith initiative. It included the importance of sensing blessings and aspects of the life of Prophet Muhammad. The concept for the initiative emerged during the start of the COVID-19 pandemic after a woman with disabilities requested an online training course. “But a team sought to turn this request into the idea of the Ghaith initiative, which in its first edition served more than 14,600 people in 10 countries around the world, and the initiative continued (so that) it is held every year in Ramadan to bring relief to people with disabilities,” Al-Otaibi said. The initiative includes implementing accredited training courses, psychological and social legal counseling, religious Ramadan evenings, vocational training for people with disabilities, and seeking to provide this group with job opportunities. Al-Otaibi described the social interaction with the Ghaith initiative as “wonderful and fruitful.” “The initiative was presented under the auspices of the Tanmiah Food Company, and everyone can sponsor the available initiatives and programs,” he said. He said that Sa3ee could do a lot by sponsoring companies and donors as it had a specialist team with the “passion and determination” to serve people with disabilities. Abdul Rahman Al-Bahli, director of the National Association of the Blind (Kafeef), said that associations had a responsibility to choose beneficial programs, develop their application, raise standards of trust with the community, and apply accurate governance standards approved by authorities. He added that associations were now under the control of authorities, through the oversight of the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development, the legal accountant appointed by the ministry, general assemblies, and donors. He said these authorities were applying precise standards that obligated associations with clear mechanisms. Abdullah Bin Saeed, a former member of the board of directors at the Physically Disabled Adults Association (Harakia), stressed the importance of holding seminars that encouraged positivity and emphasized social cohesion, especially with the disabled, because it “spreads hope” in souls. “I benefited greatly from the religious lectures organized by the Sa3ee,” said Bin Saeed, who attended the launch of the Ghaith initiative. “The lecturer was convincing to us. I deeply thank them.” Majed Al-Kharji, an intellectual education teacher, believed the Ghaith initiative was distinguished by its diversity, in religious and practical terms, and the diversity of program beneficiaries. “Everyone benefits. Undoubtedly, its focus on the practical aspect provided people with disabilities with opportunities to develop their skills and motivate them to generate appropriate societal ideas,” Al-Kharji said. Al-Kharji, owner of the Twitter handle @speciaedl, which is concerned with special education, added that the community’s interaction with charitable accounts was weak in terms of follow-up and dissemination. This meant that the interaction was very limited. “Because achieving the account’s goals requires the community's support in promoting these accounts, and at the same time it requires activity and innovation from those responsible for these accounts,” he added. Saeed H. Al-Ejil, a member of the Saudi Journalists Association, believed that social interaction with the efforts of the nonprofit sector was good in general and that the interaction with the Ghaith initiative, in particular, was not surprising. He praised the initiative for selecting lecturers who contributed to the presence or follow-up of important and influential figures in society. These events contributed to educating the community, spreading positivity, urging teamwork, “and contributing to finding some job opportunities for those looking for work through volunteer platforms or others,” he said.