DUBAI: Creative agency TBWA\RAAD, part of Omnicom Group, has launched innovation consultancy NEXT, to help brands take their customer engagement to the next level.    The growth of technologies such as the metaverse and NFTs requires businesses to venture into new territory. However, they need guidance to succeed. Brands need to move beyond the buzzwords to make an impact in those new spaces, the company said. A survey commissioned by the new consultancy found that although 96.7 percent of consumers in the UAE and KSA were interested in technology and more than half were passionate about innovations such as the metaverse, brands were falling short in terms of using technology to enhance customer experience. Consumers are looking for innovative brand experiences, with 93 percent saying they enjoy it when a brand is creative in what it offers. This is reflected in their brand choices and spending, with 88 percent saying they would pay more to receive a great brand experience and 92 percent choosing brands that “surprise and delight them.” However, 57 percent of consumers believed that too many brands offer a bad experience, and a massive 85 percent said that having bad experiences leads to bad buzz. “Today more than ever, brands need to step up their game. Consumers in the MENA region are tech-savvy and are hungry for what’s next — brands must make innovation more than a buzzword and ensure it drives business growth and real value to customers,” said Jennifer Fischer, chief innovation officer of TBWA\RAAD, who will lead NEXT. The consultancy aims to help brands bridge this gap and improve customer engagement, employing new technologies to create innovative brand experiences. The consultancy will connect emerging tech with an understanding of culture and brands to change the traditional approaches to customer experience. It will use proprietary models such as Future Mapping, an innovation pipeline developed for brands based on their strategic needs; Sprints, a deep dive into one specific opportunity within the 25 Shifts identified as critical for brands in 2022; and Quick Prototyping and Labs, where experts within TBWA’s global network will produce and deliver new ideas. In order for brands to truly innovate, technology alone is not enough, Fischer said: “People need impactful experiences that are in sync with culture, tap into emotions and use creativity and storytelling to become memorable and meaningful. NEXT aims to create more and more moments when customers can fall in love with brands, unlocking brand love, loyalty and of course business growth.”