DUBAI: US cable network Bravo unveiled this week the cast of the long-awaited reality TV show “Real Housewives of Dubai” that is set to premiere on June 1. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The show will feature British TV personality Caroline Stanbury, who was previously a fan favorite on Bravo’s “Ladies of London.” A post shared by carolinestanbury (@carolinestanbury) She will be joined by US-Lebanese content creator Nina Ali, Dubai-based model Chanel Ayan, US entrepreneur Caroline Brooks, UAE-born businesswoman Sara Al-Madani and Jamaican fashion designer Lesa Milan. The stars quickly took to social media to share the news and the promo with their thousands of followers on Instagram. A post shared by LipstickMommy (@nina.ali) In the 30-seconds clip, the ladies were seen in glamorous gold gowns as they walked against the backdrop of the city’s golden dunes and luxurious skyline that features the Burj Khalifa. “They’re taking Dubai by storm,” reads an on-screen announcement at the end of the trailer. A post shared by A Y A N (@chanelayan) “NO MORE SECRETS! It’s official we are The Real Housewives Of Dubai! You ready?” wrote Brooks to her supporters, while Ali teased: “I can finally announce the news to you all! #RHODubai glitters in gold when the series premieres June 1st on Bravo TV.” According to a previously released statement from Bravo, the UAE show will put the spotlight on this group of six women as they navigate “their relationships, careers and supremely lavish and ultra-wealthy lifestyles in the United Arab Emirates.” A post shared by Caroline Brooks (@carolinedxb) The show is produced by US company Truly Original. The executive producers will be Andy Cohen, Steven Weinstock, Glenda Hersh, Lauren Eskelin, Jamie Jakimo, Brandon Panaligan, Glenda N. Cox and Chelsey Stephens. A post shared by Dr. Sara Al Madani (@sara_almadani_) Dubai is the 11th city in the “Housewives” franchise and the first in the Middle East. Some of the previous cities that have their own shows include New York, Atlanta, New Jersey, Dallas, Miami, Beverly Hills and Salt Lake City. News of the Dubai show was first announced in November 2021. A post shared by LESA MILAN (@lesa.milan) Fans quickly speculated that Al-Madani, Ayan, Stanbury and Milan were going to be part of the show, and they were right. Other fans hoped to see US actress Lindsay Lohan, who lives in the UAE and recently announced her engagement to financier Bader Shammas.