LONDON: It was a slap that shook the Oscars, and was the highlight of many a Twitter thread and dinner table. Megastar and best actor winner Will Smith stood up and strolled across the stage to slap host and comedian Chris Rock across the face for making a joke about his wife’s alopecia — comparing her to GI Jane. “Get my wife’s name out of your f***ing mouth,” bellowed Smith after he took his seat. Reactions, as expected, were mixed. Many praised the King Richard star for defending his wife, who was struggling with a disease that brings about hair loss, while others criticized him for taking a joke too personally and setting a precedent that could lead to the harming of other comedians. Out of all people, Smith’s wife, Jada Pinkett-Smith, broke her silence through an insider source of the UK’s Daily Mail, and said that she “doesn’t need protecting.” The insider also said that Smith’s wife wishes he “didn’t get physical.” Smith has since apologized, both during and after his award speech. He also resigned from the Academy. Yet, the news cycle would just not end. “What happened at the Oscars?! Will Smith slaps Chris Rock after making a joke about his wife who suffers from alopecia, and told him to leave my wife’s name out of your dirty mouth in one of the strangest Oscar moments,” former Al Arabiya presenter Rania Abi Nader tweeted. ماذا حصل في الاوسكار؟!!!! ويل سميث يصفع كريس روك بعد اطلاق نكتة عن مشكلة شعر زوجته التي تعاني من مرض الثعلبة وقال له دع اسم زوجتي خارج فمك القذر في واحدة من اغرب لحظات الاوسكار pic.twitter.com/ptfG4Txv4S — رانيا ابي نادر (@Rania_bn) March 28, 2022 “A moment that will forever be remembered in the history of the Oscars, Will Smith slaps Chris Rock on air in defense of his wife, whom Chris disrespected and ridiculed for her hair. Will Smith’s wife is reported to suffer from a disease that causes hair loss,” Emirati Saleh Al-Shahee tweeted. لقطة ستبقى خالده في تاريخ جوائز الاوسكار ، ويل سميث يصفع كريس روك على الهواء دفاعًا عن زوجته التي قلل كريس من احترامها وسخر من شعرها ، يُذكر بأن زوجة ويل سميث تُعاني من مرض يتسبب بتساقط الشعر #جوائز_الأوسكار #Oscars #WillSmith #ويل_سميثpic.twitter.com/4cddJ3y5Rs — صالح الشحي (@Saleh_R9) March 28, 2022