DUBAI: Some of the most iconic fashion looks ever have emerged at the Grammy Awards with Jennifer Lopez’s dramatic plunging green Versace gown in 2000 immediately springing to mind. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Each year, music’s biggest night is the awards season event with the boldest looks, and the 64th annual Grammy Awards in Las Vegas was no different. Celebrities pulled up to the MGM Grand Garden Arena wearing bold and memorable looks both on and off the red carpet. Lady Gaga was a whirling catwalk show, changing outfits multiple times, and brought in the glamor wearing a strapless Elie Saab gown for her emotional performance of “Love for Sale” and “Do I Love You” from her album “Love for Sale,” which she recorded with long-time friend and duet partner Tony Bennett.   The satin mint-colored gown was adorned with a large bow and was custom-designed by the Beirut-born couturier. Also championing Arab talent on a global stage was US actress Rachel Zegler, who honored the late Broadway composer Stephen Sondheim with a musical tribute, alongside Tony winners Cynthia Erivo, Leslie Odom Jr., and Ben Platt. During the performance, which was part of the Grammys In Memoriam segment, the singers sang songs from popular musicals such as “West Side Story” (where Zegler made her screen debut).   Zegler opted for a red, plunging Zuhair Murad creation for the performance, which was a glamorous change from the flowing grey Dior gown she wore on the red carpet. On the red carpet, reality star and socialite Paris Hilton posed for pictures with her husband Carter Reum on her arm wearing an Atelier Zuhra creation in eye-popping silver with strategically placed sequins and a gauzy flowing cape.   Meanwhile, Chrissy Teigen changed out of the opulent pink gown she wore on the red carpet into a sparkling gold off-the-shoulder dress with voluminous pink feathered sleeves from Georges Hobeika. The embellished gown from the Lebanese designer’s fall 2022 couture collection featured a keyhole cutout in the midriff and a high slit.