DUBAI: US-Egyptian jewelry label Jacquie Aiche has just launched its latest collection “Divine Rising” in collaboration with model and it-girl Sofia Richie. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 23-year-old model features in photographs wearing the Los Angeles-based brand’s signature diamond-encrusted body chains, bracelets, earrings, and rings which were designed and handcrafted in Aiche’s studio. The collection is inspired by spring and is rooted in the appreciation for precious gemstones and their healing powers. It celebrates energy and Mother Earth by using symbols and gemstones to “honor the free spirit.” A post shared by Jacquie Aiche (@jacquieaiche) Some of the highlights of the “Divine Rising” collection include beaded gemstone necklaces, and Opal, Malachite, and Morganite gemstones on 14-carat gold pieces. Aiche and Richie were instantly drawn to one another when collaborating on the collection. Aiche said: “Wrapped in diamonds and gemstone layers, Sofia radiated a divine, goddess-like glow; the beauty of Mother Nature shines through her so organically. She was a dream to work with and her energy made the jewels shine even brighter.” It’s not the first time the daughter of music legend Lionel Richie showcases her design talent — the model has previously teamed up with Kuwaiti luxury accessories brand Marzook on an exclusive capsule collection. A post shared by Jacquie Aiche (@jacquieaiche) More recently, she teamed up with her older sister Nicole Richie on a new spring collection for Nicole’s House of Harlow 1960 line. Meanwhile, the part-Egyptian jewelry designer has managed to swiftly emerge as a celebrity loved label, with stars such as Usher, Chrissy Teigen, and Kylie Jenner favoring the brand’s handmade pieces. Aiche, who was born to an Egyptian father and an indigenous American mother, launched her eponymous label from her garage in 2008. She has since amassed an impressive celebrity client list that includes Hailey Bieber, Usher, Rihanna, and Blake Lively. A post shared by Jacquie Aiche (@jacquieaiche) Stylists head to her Beverly Hills showroom to adorn their clients in her signature dainty earrings, finger bracelets and chokers ahead of red-carpet events. The jewelry designer’s store in Los Angeles holds items made from delicate raw quartz, tourmaline, moonstone, and other rare stones. Her pieces often feature Arab influences like hammered gold and the evil eye talisman, as well as natural elements such as turquoise and precious gemstones that are a nod to her Native American ancestors.