DUBAI: Following a week of controversy for Amina Muaddi, French model Cindy Bruna stepped out wearing her “Jahleel” suede thigh-high boots in a honey brown color at an event for sustainable beauty line Costa Brazil, created by Brazilian designer Francisco Costa. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The ruched shoes feature pointed toes and are placed atop daring 100 mm stiletto heels. The event celebrated the launch of Costa Brazil’s new “Aroma” perfume that is — according to the label — environmentally responsible, vegan, cruelty free and made from reusable packaging wrapped in sustainable red oak. It was a return to the spotlight for Jordanian-Romanian designer Muaddi, after she took to Instagram last week to respond to rumors on social media that claimed rapper A$AP Rocky cheated on pregnant US singer Rihanna with her, causing the couple to split. A post shared by Cindy Bruna (@cindybruna) The designer, who collaborated with both music stars on footwear collections, called the allegations an “unfounded lie.” Muaddi’s eponymous label’s distinct pumps, sling-backs, mules, boots and sandals in an array of vibrant colors and holographic designs have garnered a loyal checklist of famous fans, including Dua Lipa, Gigi Hadid, Kylie Jenner, Kendall Jenner and Hailey Bieber Baldwin. Meanwhile, Bruna, who was born to an Italian father and a Congolese mother in France, started her modeling career in 2012 after signing with Wilhelmina Models. She went on to become one of the most recognizable models in the industry, making headlines as the first black woman to walk exclusively for Calvin Klein in that same year. Bruna has been ranked as a “Money Girl” on models.com, alongside the likes of Bella Hadid and Kendall Jenner, meaning she is predicted to have longevity in the fashion world. She has walked the runway for a number of high-end labels, including Chanel, Saint Laurent and Gucci. Throughout her career, she has remained loyal to the designer who gave her one of her first modeling gigs, the renowned Lebanese couturier Elie Saab. Last year, she served as the face of Elie Saab Parfum’s 10-year anniversary campaign.