JEDDAH: Saudi scout boys resumed their duties this year in Ramadan after a hiatus of two years following the coronavirus pandemic. The participating scout boys this year are students aged 17 and above from the Makkah Education Department who began their volunteer work to serve worshippers in the Holy Mosque, in cooperation with the General Presidency for the Affairs of the Two Holy Mosques and Makkah Special Security Forces. Ziad Qadeer, the head of the scouting activity department of Makkah Education Department, told Arab News that “it aims to upgrade the abilities of the boys to become good individuals who will contribute to building the society in the future.” Every year, the number of scout boys increases, as new scout units are formed at the three school stages — elementary, intermediate, and high. ● The boy scouts are divided into two groups. The first group is assigned to multiple locations on different floors of the Grand Mosque including the mataf (circumambulation), and other praying areas, in addition to distributing iftar meals with approved charities. ● The second group works after the Maghrib prayer until the Taraweeh prayer ends at the Grand Mosque, where the scout boys are tasked with the responsibility of directing worshippers to designated prayer areas, not corridors, to prevent overcrowding and facilitate the smooth movement of worshippers. More than 160 new scout leaders, who joined the Makkah Education Department, have been trained and are qualified to lead their scouting units this season. Qadeer said that after the qualified scout boysweare selected “we introduce them to the importance of principles in dealing and communication with worshippers because it is the basis of the service they provide.” The scout boys are divided into two groups. The first group is assigned to multiple locations on different floors of the Grand Mosque including the mataf (circumambulation), and other praying areas, in addition to distributing iftar meals with approved charities. The second group works after the Maghrib prayer until the Taraweeh prayer ends at the Grand Mosque, where the scout boys are tasked with the responsibility of directing worshippers to designated prayer areas, not corridors, to prevent overcrowding and facilitate the smooth movement of worshippers. In 2021, scout leaders were only allowed to participate in organizing and assisting worshippers during Ramadan and Hajj season. However this year, all scout boys were allowed to participate in various tasks as life returned to normal. Pioneer Scout Mohammed Al-Zbidi spoke to Arab News about the return of the scouts to assist during Ramadan this year. Al-Zbidi, who joined Makkah Scouts in 1994, said that as soon as student scouts’ duty return was announced, “I felt that the spirit is back, the energy is back, and the students returned with full enthusiasm, vitality and love for work.” The scout boys will also be part of a number of volunteer programs, events and initiatives.