ABU DHABI: Yas Marina Circuit is hosting more than 70 exciting activities for the families to enjoy throughout Ramadan, including driving experiences, karting and track days. Visitors can experience the thrill on the circuit as DriveYAS will continue for three days a week — Tuesday, Friday, and Sunday — throughout Ramadan with three new bundle options for drivers to test their ability behind the wheel of various vehicles. For those looking for a taste of the Formula 1 experience, there is the Grand Prix Pack which offers a drive in the Formula Yas 3000 car — a single-seat racing car — and a full venue tour giving behind the scenes insight into the Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix. To celebrate Ramadan, Yas Marina Circuit will be offering guests 20 percent off on both Drive YAS and karting over the course of Ramadan and through to the end of August. Elsewhere on the circuit, the Motor Majilis Car Club will also return to the circuit for special meet-ups alongside track activities on Friday, Apr. 15 and Saturday, Apr. 30. Motor Majilis is a community for motorsports enthusiasts, world-class clubs, supercar owners and aspiring drivers, meeting at Yas Marina Circuit throughout the year. Alternatively, head down to Yas Kartzone powered by ADNOC for some fun with the whole family as people of all ages are invited to get behind the wheel, while the Ramadan Karting Cup, split between three age groups, will feature a two-hour endurance race for adults and Time Attack for children and juniors, with fantastic prizes on offer for the standout performers. The Community YAS health and fitness events will also continue to be held at Yas Marina Circuit throughout Ramadan, providing members of the Abu Dhabi community with the platform to keep fit and active. ADNOC TrainYAS powered by Abu Dhabi Sports Council takes place on Sundays and Tuesdays, from 7-11pm, giving guests of all fitness levels the chance to walk, run or cycle the track, while a female-specific version of the event is in operation every Monday from 7-10pm. TrainAM takes place on Monday, Wednesday and Thursday, from 6-8am. The Ramadan Challenge is also returning for 2022, encouraging the public to run or walk 50 km at the circuit or cycle 100 km. It’s free to register and the fastest times will have a chance of winning some great experiences at Yas Marina Circuit.