NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United January signing Kieran Trippier is ready to step up his return from injury, with hopes high that the defender will feature significantly in the rest of the Magpies’ season. Head coach Eddie Howe has also provided an update on the status of Callum Wilson, with the England striker and Newcastle top-scorer going through the gears at the club’s Benton training base after a long-term calf and Achilles problem. Trippier has been out since February with a broken foot and a scan on the injured left fifth metatarsal was scheduled on Friday to determine whether the former Atletico Madrid man can return soon. Head coach Eddie Howe is hopeful his $17million man can return “quite quickly”, with his side nine games out from the end of the Premier League season. “Kieran has a scan on his foot to see how that is healing, hopefully it will go well,” said Howe, ahead of the Magpies’ trip to Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday. “From this day, maybe we can push him quite quickly to get back. Hopefully we get good news.” The news was also positive on striker Wilson, who could be seen sprinting on the club’s training pitches at the end of the week, although, it seems that the 30-year-old, six-goal frontman might have to wait a little longer than Trippier. “With Callum, he’s slightly behind Kieran but he’s still making good progress,” said Howe. “I hope he’ll play this season.” Meanwhile, the head coach was handed a triple injury boost, with Fabian Schar, Martin Dubravka and Jonjo Shelvey look set to return for the North London match. “Fabian came back having not played or trained but we’ve had a couple of sessions with him, so we’ll think he’ll be fit,” he said. “Martin trained with us for the first time yesterday, so we hope he’ll be fine.” “We’ve got a little bit of illness in the camp like most teams have around the country but we’ve still a couple of days before the game so we hope everyone will be OK.” “Jonjo has trained. He hasn’t trained every session we’ve done, I think he suffered from the illness. We hope he’ll be OK.”