The Dubai Duty Free Spring Trials Weekend began on Saturday with the action dominated by the famous blue silks of Sheikh Mohammed’s Godolphin. Day 1 of the event marked the beginning of the 26th year of the association between Dubai Duty Free and Newbury Racecourse. Godolphin’s success began when Canadian Group 1 winner, Wild Beauty, under William Buick, took the Group 3 Dubai Duty Free Stakes, Newbury’s 1,000 Guineas trial, initiating a treble for the team and Charlie Appleby. Further UAE success followed in the 2,000 Guineas trial, the Watership Down Stud Too Darn Hot Greenham Stakes won by Sheikh Rashid Dalmook Al Maktoum’s colt, Perfect Power, suggesting both could feature in their respective classics in a fortnight’s time at Newmarket. William Buick was soon back in the winner’s circle after Modern News provided another Godolphin success for Sheikh Mohammed in the Highclere Thoroughbred Racing 30th Anniversary Spring Cup Handicap. Near the top of the weights Modern News and Buick controlled the race and though the winning margin was only a neck, the result was never in doubt. And a day of dominance for Godolphin was underlined by the one-two of Natural World and Ottoman Fleet in the maiden race for three-year-olds. Ottoman Fleet with William Buick was favorite but James Doyle and Natural World, a son of Frankel, battled hardest. After a two-and-a-half-year absence, Dubai Duty Free Executive Vice Chairman and CEO Colm McLoughlin, executive vice president — corporate services, Salah Tahlak, and Sinead El Sibai, senior vice president — marketing, were welcomed back with a round of applause at a Dubai Duty Free-hosted lunch preceding Newbury’s first meeting of the 2022 season. McLoughlin gave “100,000 thanks” (in Gaelic) for the attendees and for the loyal customers who have enabled a 94 percent increase in business for Dubai Duty Free over the past 12 months. “We congratulate the connections of all the winners on the opening day of the Dubai Duty Free Spring Trials Weekend and thank the Newbury Racecourse team for welcoming us back so warmly,” he said. “The Dubai Duty Free Spring Trials Weekend provides us with an excellent opportunity to connect with our UK-based colleagues and renew many valuable acquaintances.”