NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has revealed that Newcastle United need to add more goals if they want to continue their drive up the Premier League. However, the head coach says any talk of transfers and the summer window can wait for another day. Despite being out since Dec. 28, having gone under the knife to fix a calf problem, Callum Wilson remains the Magpies’ top scorer this season with six goals. And while the likes of Bruno Guimaraes and Allan Saint-Maximin have chipped in with four and five goals respectively, Howe knows that to take the next step up the division next season, United need goals up top. “Yes, ultimately we need to score more goals, that’s very clear,” said Howe. “From open play, set plays — whatever it is — we need more goals, and we’d love someone to be right at the top of the goalscoring charts. If you do, it gives you a much better chance of being successful consistently. But we’ve spread the goals around from different areas of the pitch, and I think that’s also hugely important that you’re not reliant on one goal source. “While we’d love someone to be scoring goals on a consistent basis, we still need that spread of goals around the team.” United have consistently been linked with the likes of Benfica frontman Darwin Nunez, Brentford’s Ivan Toney and Everton’s Dominic Calvert-Lewin. And Arab News understands that a striker to rival Wilson and Chris Wood will be an absolute priority this summer with Dwight Gayle allowed to leave, likely to a Championship side. On transfers, Howe said: “That will be for another time. As I’ve said, there are people working on lots of different things at the football club that I don’t necessarily have day-to-day contact with. But there will come a time, hopefully very soon, where I can start to do that more.” Wood was a surprise exclusion from the United XI at Carrow Road on Saturday, a game in which Newcastle won 3-0 thanks to goals from Brazilian duo Joelinton and Guimaraes. Explaining the decision, Howe said: “We wanted to give a rest to Chris. And we decided to go with Joe who has played as a center forward many times. “In the game, I didn’t think we started particularly well, and we knew before the game a potential switch for us was Maxi (Saint-Maximin) and Joe. “When we did, he scored a fantastic first goal. “Maxi actually did very well as a nine, so it’s great to have that versatility and choice in games to tweak things because you need those options.” Another novelty down in the southeast of England was the reappearance of Matt Ritchie. His 15-minute cameo was the veteran wideman’s first appearance of 2022 in the Premier League — and it could turn out to be his farewell show for the Magpies, after more than five years on Tyneside. “Matt missed quite a big chunk of the season through injury. What a professional he’s been,” said Howe. “I could hear him in the changing room before the game trying to galvanize the players. He’s been incredible for me in a different way around the group, as has Dwight Gayle. Both brilliant professionals and two very good players. Great to get both of them on the pitch.”