The Diriyah Gate Development Authority has reinforced its commitment to the mission of investing in the personal growth of the area’s community by establishing a series of training programs for its members.
The training titled “Program Your Passion” through the STEM program for science, technology, engineering and mathematics, will be held in collaboration with the top training institute in the world, DigiPen.
DigiPen was founded by Claude Comair in 1988 in Vancouver, British Columbia, as a computer simulation and animation company. As the demand for work increased, Comair faced difficulty in finding qualified personnel who not only had a fundamental understanding of computer science but were also versed in the latest digital technology.
DigiPen is the first school in the world to offer a bachelor’s degree in video games programming.
The training programs will be provided to young people at all school levels in the Diriyah community. This would help to ensure that they are technically proficient, and inspire them to explore future job opportunities in interactive digital technology, in line with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 reform plan.
The program will have two main streams: The first would allow students to develop their skills in producing video games, while the second would ensure they can become proficient in animation design.
Both programs will be conducted in Arabic and will cover all the main concepts related to the development of video games, such as science, art, animation, music, as well as film production techniques.
The first stage of the program will include training workshops for 12 Saudi trainers (males and females), under the supervision of the experts of the international institute. This would build capacity and sustainability in the program, that can also be harnessed for subsequent projects.
Ahlam Althunayan, community engagement director at DGDA, said he was pleased that the program would be introduced at Diriyah schools. “I am delighted to bring this program to Diriyah. Bringing such programs will develop and shape their talents as DigiPen is known for being one of the top five institutes in the world.
“We are excited to bring DigiPen programs for the first time to our community. The graduate of this institute works in top companies globally such as Google, Disney, Netflix, Microsoft, Nintendo and much more. Diriyah shines because of its people, and I’m thrilled to be part of shaping the skills of our young talents,” Althunayan added.
DGDA is committed to empowering Diriyah’s youth and has been working to implement training programs like these to provide unique opportunities for the local community. In addition to arts and culture training, the participants received medical training to better prepare them for unforeseen situations at large events held in the area.
DGDA’s community engagement team plans to conduct more training activities in 2022 and has set up a database of programs and participants. It encourages members of its local community, both young and old, to actively participate in the training programs and become part of a group of Saudi ambassadors who are proud of their history.