JEDDAH: The Oversight and Anti-Corruption Authority has put up information on its official Twitter account about 13 corruption cases it has been pursuing. The authority, also known as Nazaha, said the cases included financial and administrative corruption crimes, abuse of power, embezzlement and money laundering. Below are four of the most prominent of the cases. A resident working for a local company has been suspended for bribery, receiving money transfers to his personal accounts outside the Kingdom in Switzerland. Investigations revealed bribery of SR1,296,061 ($346,000) from the manager of a foreign company in exchange for obtaining a subcontract with the resident’s company that is also in contract with a university in Saudi Arabia. The authority also arrested five Ministry of Health employees for exploiting the influence of the public office, embezzlement, and forgery. They were caught taking SR9,263,900 in the form of salaries and entitlements of foreign ministry employees who left the Kingdom after the expiry of their contracts by modifying and adding the bank account numbers belonging to them and their acquaintances. In another case involving bribery, exploiting the influence of public office and money laundering, Nazaha suspended a retired military pilot, a major general of the Royal Saudi Air Force, at the Ministry of Defense. The pilot was arrested for obtaining SR9,000,000 in installments and a luxury vehicle with an estimated market value of SR500,000 from a resident working for a company contracting with the Air Force. He accepted these bribes in return for facilitating the procedures for disbursing the company’s financial dues irregularly during his work and forcing some Air Force employees to deposit the amounts of rented buildings from the Ministry in his bank accounts. The authority arrested a resident working as a consulting engineer and intermediary in a municipality of one of the regions. Upon investigation, the authority found that he had received SR520,000 in exchange for enabling a commercial entity to obtain contracts to implement fake projects worth SR1,000,000 without actually implementing them on the ground. It was also found that SR500,000 out of the total seized amount was requested by the mayor of one of the governorates who was also arrested.