JEDDAH: The biggest prank hit show in the Middle East has been filmed in Riyadh and sponsored by the General Entertainment Authority for the second time in a row.
In its 11th show this season, “Ramez Movie star” was filmed in the Riyadh desert. The program is screened exclusively on MBC channels.
Presented by the Egyptian actor Ramez Galal, the prank show is considered one of the most popular Ramadan programs that viewers from the Arab world of all ages await every year. It combines comedy, horror and panic.
GEA Chairman Turki Al-Sheikh shared the show’s promo video on his official Twitter account: “At the heart of our beloved capital Riyadh, during Ramadan, for the second time in a row. Stay tuned to watch #Ramez_Movie_Star on MBC sponsored by GEA.”
Every year, Galal brings a new daring theme to keep his viewers entertained, presenting different pranks in countries worldwide, including Egypt, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Russia, Indonesia and, recently, Saudi Arabia.
During the past 11 years, Galal has hosted hundreds of Egyptian, Arab and foreign celebrities such as Antonio Banderas, Steven Seagal, Paris Hilton, Alla Kushnir, Shah Rukh Khan and Hector Cuper.
This year’s show included the Belgian actor, martial artist and filmmaker Jean-Claude Van Damme, who co-hosted 30 episodes, during which he participated in a pretend action scene — the core prank of the show.
As part of the 2022 Riyadh season that lasted for five months, welcomed 15 million visitors and closed at the end of March, Al-Sheikh introduced visitors of the season to an unprecedented experience inspired by the same prank program of Galal. The Ramez experience was held in Riyadh City Boulevard, where visitors enjoyed an array of exciting, funny pranks by Galal.
In a tweet, Galal thanked Al-Sheikh for his support in making Ramez’s experience available for the first time in the Middle East.
The artist Galal recently won the award for the best program at the Joy Awards ceremony in Riyadh in January, 2022.
The 2021 season was called “Ramez Lost His Mind” also filmed in Riyadh. Galal said that in the last episode of the show, “according to the amazing renaissance that the Kingdom is witnessing, we decided to bring the show to Riyadh.”
He also praised the support received by GEA and Al-Sheikh in making the show happen: “We were able to build an Olympic pool in six days only, it is an incredible achievement.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle