RIYADH: UAE-based Chalhoub Group’s Christofle will enter the metaverse with its first non-fungible token collection “925 Genesis MOOD” on May 7, 2022. The NFT refers to an imaginary city, named ‘Christofle Aurifaber Citatis’ in Latin, or ‘The City of Christofle Silversmithing’, a statement showed. “We are eager to join the era of the Metaverse with this new first NFT collection in line with our brand values of audacity, elegance, excellence, and inclusiveness,” Emilie Metge, CEO of Christofle said. “With a bold and modern approach, we are translating our craftsmanship into the new wave of the web, that is all about community and ownership,” she said. “We want to offer the Christofle community a way to experience and access unique pieces of Christofle,” she added. “I feel extremely humbled and proud to witness our Group’s first NFT drop. And it only makes sense for it to be done with Christofle, the first luxury brand we introduced to the GCC over 65 years ago,” said President of Strategy, Growth, Innovation and Investment at Chalhoub Group, Michael Chalhoub. “Innovation and retaining the entrepreneurial spirit of our founders have always been part of our core values, and we take it as our duty to lead the way and introduce the first luxury tableware NFT,” he said. Christofle NFT collection “925 Genesis MOOD” is inspired by MOOD by Christofle launched in 2015 and one of the best sellers of the house. It is a dreamlike city of silver and gold where the architecture takes the visitor on an immersive journey, across time and space, revealing the brand codes dear to Christofle. The NFTs will be available at www.exclusible.com for 0.1 ETH on Saturday May 7, 2022, NFT holders will gain access to exclusive and unique benefits, as well as discover the world of Christofle through an incredible 3D masterpiece Christofle entering Web 3.0 is the completion of a collaboration between Christofle, and Exclusible, which develops and sells coveted NFTs and luxury digital real estate, and is powered by Chalhoub Group’s Innovation unit, according to the statement. This NFT collection cements the ambition to engage customers in this new era by building long-lasting relationships with them, it said.