NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has warned that UEFA financial fair play rules mean it will be a case of evolution, not revolution at Newcastle United this summer.
Big names continue to be linked with the Magpies on a daily basis, with their Premier League status close to being secured for next season.
While interest is retained in high-profile names, such as Sven Botman, of Lille, and Darwin Nunez, of Benfica, United’s summer will not be defined by one or two “eye-catching” pieces of business.
Arab News understands that United and Howe will focus their summer business in much the same manner as they did in January, aiming for a general leveling up of the quality of players in the squad in a number of key positions.
It is believed the forward department, and finding top-level competition for Chris Wood and Callum Wilson, are at the top of the club’s summer window priorities.
However, any talk of predefined budgets, as per January, is wide of the mark.
“I am happy with this squad while acknowledging that time never stands still,” said head coach Howe.
“You have to continue to improve and evolve, so I have no problem looking outward and saying we do need certain things, but I do not think it will be the revolution that everyone thinks it will be. It can’t be because we are under financial restrictions.
“It is not just a case of signing anybody, and that would never be the way I work anyway because every individual has to fit within the structure of the team and make the team better, not just a very good individual. That is fundamental to our future.
“So, for all those different reasons, I do not think it will ever be a case of wholesale changes.”
UEFA’s financial fair play rules are likely to limit the Magpies’ spending power this summer, according to Howe.
FFP was introduced by UEFA in 2009 to prevent clubs spending more than they earn and to protect their long-term futures.
However, the rules allow room for clubs to make a loss of up to £105 million over a three-year period.
With no new revenue streams yet secured or announced since the takeover, and the wage bill steadily increasing due to the substantial winter window trading, FFP is at the forefront of the Newcastle owners’ minds.
“It doesn’t help in terms of the media perception,” said Howe.
“But, yes, financial fair play is now in full power in the Premier League, so you have to fit into those structures. We will fall in line like every other club.
“Certainly, the perception is one thing and the reality is very different, so we will have to be very smart with what we do.”
Howe’s United take on Leicester City on Sunday, with the Foxes fresh from a morale-boosting, if physically and mentally sapping, Europa League quarterfinal tie win over PSV Eindhoven on Thursday.
Brendan Rodgers’ side will have done little in terms of training and recovery by the time they land on Tyneside this weekend. But Howe, having gone through a similarly gruelling Premier League fixture list recently, does not believe that will have much bearing on the game.
“We have been in this situation before, where teams have played in Europe. And my experience of it is that it doesn’t really have much impact on the game,” he said.
“They have got a squad to cope, they have a very good group. They have some long-term injuries who have returned so their squad looks a lot stronger. They also have a manager who has a lot of experience.
“It hasn’t influenced the games in my experience, so we expect a full0strength Leicester.”
United ended their own mini-crisis in the top flight last weekend with a 1-0 win over top half Wolverhampton Wanderers.
The victory ended a three-game losing streak, which came straight off the back of nine games unbeaten — a run which saw the Magpies climb from deep in the relegation mire to 10 points clear of it.
“Naturally there has been a big lift for the group,” Howe said of the impact of the win.
“No one wanted to see that run continue, and although that was on the back of a good run, we were well aware that we needed to respond, especially in front of our own supporters.”