LONDON: A new residence visa and entry permits system for the UAE was announced on Monday, the country’s media office reported. The new system offers new types of residence permits for skilled employees, investors, self-employed people, as well as family members of current residents. According to the UAE Media Office, residents can now sponsor their family members including spouses and children up to the age of 25 and in the case of an unmarried daughter, her parents will be able to sponsor her visa regardless of age.  #UAE adopted a new Entry and Residence Scheme including new categories and expanding the scope of beneficiaries. A step that supports the country's competitiveness in the tourism, economic and educational sectors. pic.twitter.com/BKApLKiXJz — UAEGOV (@UAEmediaoffice) April 18, 2022 Green Residency holders will also now be able to sponsor first-degree relatives, and disabled children will be granted a permit regardless of age. “The duration of family members residence shall be the same as their sponsor’s residence duration,” the media office posted in a tweet on Monday. The media office also said residence permits would be allowed in some humanitarian cases. According to the UAE federal government, a female resident whose husband of Emirati nationality passes away in the country and has one child or more will be eligible for a residence permit.  The new Entry and Residence Scheme offers 10 types of entry visas with simplified requirements and more benefits. New visas require no host or sponsor, offer more flexibility, multi entry, 60 days validity and one unified platform to apply at pic.twitter.com/0PsCJYaoyR — UAEGOV (@UAEmediaoffice) April 18, 2022 Also included in this category are parents or children of a UAE citizen who holds foreign passports, as well as spouses and children of Gulf Corporation Council (GCC) state citizens who hold foreign passports. Freelancers and self-employed people will be entitled to Green Residency, as will skilled employees, who will be required to renew their residency every five years but without the need for a sponsor or employer. The media office added that Standard Employment Residence permits will need to be renewed every two years. Investors, who are eligible for the Green Residency, will be able to hold a five-year visa and do not need a sponsor.  The new system for residence visas and entry permits offers new types of residence permits for investors, skilled employees, self-employment and family members. The new types provide customized benefits to each category. pic.twitter.com/7JI8qjMsKm — UAEGOV (@UAEmediaoffice) April 18, 2022 Students enrolled at educational institutions in the UAE will be eligible to hold a visa for two years and sponsorship (by a licensed educational established in the country) will be required to uphold their residency status. “The new system for residence visas and entry permits offers new types of residence permits for investors, skilled employees, self-employment and family members. The new types provide customized benefits to each category,” the UAE Media Office said in a tweet.