MAKKAH: Throughout the year, the General Presidency for the Affairs of the Two Holy Mosques broadcasts classes, lectures, and documentaries in different languages around the world via the Manaret Al-Haramain app. People can watch either recorded lectures and lessons being held in the Grand Mosque in Makkah, or live sessions on the app, spokesman for the general presidency, Hani bin Hosni Haidar, told Arab News. Delivered by senior scholars and sheikhs specialized in various Islamic studies, sessions are announced every Saturday through the Manaret Al-Haramain, Haramain, Mutamiron, Zaeron, and Lawama Al-Athkar apps. “This allows a large number of people to benefit from correct books and texts specialized in many fields including jurisprudence, faith, origins, prophet’s biography, Arabic language, literature, and other scientific books,” Haidar said. “The presidency attaches a great deal of attention to translation and multilingualism due to its high impact on delivering content to Muslims of various segments and languages. The General Presidency for the Affairs of the Two Holy Mosques had made great strides in developing its technical and media capabilities to help spread the message of Islam around the world, including through film production such as “Sanctify my House,” highlighting efforts to cleanse, sanitize, and clean the Grand Mosque, “Ma’rez” that shed light on the services provided by the Kingdom, the “Umrah Guide” educational flick, among others. “It coordinates directly and continuously with the directorate general for digital broadcasting to provide it with content in many international languages including English, French, Malay, Persian, Chinese, Bengali, Russian, Turkish, Hausa, Spanish, Pashto, Punjabi, Baluchi, Thai, Uzbek, and Urdu,” he added. Haidar noted that the General Presidency for the Affairs of the Two Holy Mosques had made great strides in developing its technical and media capabilities to help spread the message of Islam around the world, including through film production. This included movies such as “Sanctify my House,” highlighting efforts to cleanse, sanitize, and clean the Grand Mosque, “Ma’rez” that shed light on the services provided by the Kingdom, the “Umrah Guide” educational flick, and “Rouh Al-Haramain,” a series about the features of the Two Holy Mosques. Among other films, “Values and Holiness” promoted correct practices for visitors to the Grand Mosque, and the Prophet’s Mosque in Madinah, “Mubarakan” reviewed the services and programs in the Two Holy Mosques, and “Eish Al-Haram” was aimed at raising awareness about the services offered by the Kingdom at the holy sites. Another movie highlighted the health and safety measures put in place by the Saudi government at the Two Holy Mosques to help prevent the spread of COVID-19. The government agency has also made documentaries such as “Zamzam Blessed Water,” “Kiswah” (about the cloth that covers the Kaaba), and “One Day in the Haram.” “Rihab Al-Haramain” was a 30-episode program focused on a service provided in the Two Holy Mosques, including instructions and more than 300 awareness messages in six languages. “Bushra” was a Ramadan video program that aired on social media, while “The Haramain Message,” and “Atheer Al-Haram,” were awareness, guidance, and cultural radio programs. The agency has also published the 13th edition of Two Holy Mosques magazine in several languages, featuring news, images, and other information.