RIYADH: Kazakhstan Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Berik Aryn met with Saudi Minister of Hajj and Umrah Dr. Tawfiq Al-Rabiah to discuss the Central Asian country’s pilgrim quota for this year. Saudi Arabia is keen to maintain the continuity of Hajj, giving as many Muslims as possible around the world the chance to fulfill their religious duties. The Ministry of Hajj and Umrah announced last Saturday that this year’s Hajj capacity will be increased to 1 million pilgrims. The decision will be implemented in line with guidelines based on the government’s concern for pilgrims’ safety, and the well-being of those visiting the Grand Mosque and the Prophet’s Mosque. COVID-19 restrictions meant that last year’s Hajj was restricted to 60,000 pilgrims, all from within the Kingdom. The Kazakh envoy and Saudi minister discussed issues related to the Hajj season, including the allocation of quotas for Kazakh pilgrims. “I had the honor to meet with the minister of Hajj and Umrah. During the meeting, we discussed several issues related to the upcoming Hajj season, including the allocation of quotas for Kazakh pilgrims and the process of organizing the pilgrimage,” Aryn told Arab News on Wednesday. The minister explained recent changes in the rules for organizing Umrah and Hajj, as well as requirements introduced at pilgrimage sites to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “We reached an agreement to hold negotiations soon between representatives of the Ministry of Hajj and Umrah of Saudi Arabia and the Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kazakhstan to discuss organizational issues of the upcoming Hajj season,” the ambassador said. “I would like to highlight the efforts of the government of Saudi Arabia to create the most favorable conditions for pilgrims arriving from all over the world, and to take the necessary measures to preserve their health and ensure safety,” he added. The envoy congratulated King Salman, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and the people of Saudi Arabia on the holy month of Ramadan and wished them good health, peace and prosperity.