DUBAI: Chinese online fashion retailer Shein has launched a Ramadan collection for the Middle East inspired by Yemeni-Emirati singer Balqees Fathi’s music. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The collection is based on a set of five quotes from the singer’s most popular songs, and includes narrative T-shirts designed with modern calligraphy and embellishments.   A portion of proceeds from the capsule collection will go to those in need in recognition of Ramadan’s virtues of sharing and gratitude. Profits from a Shein livestream on April 9 will be directed to organizations such as the Emirates Red Crescent and Sanad Children’s Cancer Support Association. Fathi took to Instagram to promote the launch. She shared with her 13 million followers sneak previews in recent weeks and a full collection video this week. A post shared by Balqees (@balqeesfathi) “A new collection with Shein inspired by the lyrics of my songs, now available on Shein website,” she wrote to her fans. The singer, who rose to fame in 2013, was born in the UAE to Yemeni-Emirati parents, and credits her father Ahmad, who is also a musician, with teaching her about the industry. Fathi’s personality and popularity have helped her become a regional influencer, as well as a role model.   During her career the “Hala Jdeeda” singer has worked with many charities and been a consistent advocate of women’s rights. As part of her philanthropic work, the singer previously visited Yemeni refugee camps in Djibouti and launched the #DontCoverItUp campaign, which aims to raise awareness on domestic abuse. She was named a UN Champion for Women’s Rights in the Middle East in 2016.   She has also collaborated with major fashion houses, and was the first Middle Eastern celebrity to partner with jewelry and luxury watch brand Piaget. In 2020, Fathi launched her own beauty brand, Bex — a nickname used by close friends and family. The label focuses on the Arab ideal of beauty, with products such as foundation colors with different undertones, a humidity-proof eyeliner and a variety of nude shade long-lasting lipsticks.