NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has praised Chris Wood’s “broad shoulders” as the January signing proved Newcastle United’s Premier League matchwinner.
The New Zealand international won the penalty that proved decisive in the 1-0 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers on Friday evening. Wood then stepped up to slot home the only goal of the game from 12 yards to take Howe’s Magpies 10 points clear of the top-flight drop zone ahead of a busy weekend of encounters at the bottom of the top-flight table.
The winner, a confident strike sending Wolves’ keeper Jose Sa the wrong way, came after Wood had seen what looked like a perfectly well-taken strike chalked out for offside by video assistant referee officials.
And Howe has praised the player for his confidence after the disappointment of seeing only his second goal in black and white ruled out.
Howe said: “When you haven’t scored in front of your supporters, I think that it can be difficult. He was really challenged, as he scored what he thought — we all thought — was a good goal, and then it was cut away from him. He must have thought at that moment, ‘When’s it going to come?’ There was a lot of pressure on his shoulders, but I thought he struck the penalty really well. That was a big, big thing for him.”
Wood has struggled to justify his hefty January price tag since arriving from Burnley for around $32 million at the turn of the year.
The 30-year-old has just two goals to show for his 12 United appearances so far and has been criticized by some sections of the fanbase for some below-par, less-than-dynamic performances.
However, Howe could not be happier with the player, who has proven an important cog in the United wheel, which has now rolled toward lower mid-table safety from the depths of relegation mire when he arrived.
“He is a center forward. He is a goal scorer. He wants to score, and I always trust my players. If they want the penalty, he gets it,” said the head coach.
“Really, really pleased he did. He wants that responsibility. And when you come to a club like this, you need to have broad shoulders. He has since he’s come in. I have spoken very highly of him in several moments and I have said every word honestly about how valued he is to me and to the team. But he needs to score, so I am really, really pleased.”
While Newcastle dominated the opening 45 minutes, it was Wolves who began to wrestle control after the break.
The waves of gold pressure were only broken by a burst of speedy, unpredictable flair provided by Allan Saint-Maximin. The Frenchman came to life in the second period, and a five-minute spell of brilliance, in which he injected drive and purpose to a pinned-back Newcastle side, ultimately led to the goal.
Saint-Maximin’s influence was not lost on Howe, who praised the work rate of the enigmatic forward, who has missed much of the last month or so through illness and injury.
“With the length of time he was out and the training he missed, he probably needed the two games,” said Howe of Saint-Maximin.
“There was no lack of effort from Maxi; he gave everything for the team. I think he maxed out physically, to his best fitness levels.
He is a player who decides games. I thought the move for the penalty was really good.
He had a few chances, which was good to see him in those goalscoring areas. We have been working on that with him, despite the fact he didn’t take any of those chances. Positive signs for Maxi.”
Newcastle United will next host Leicester City at St. James’ Park on Sunday, Apr. 17.