CASABLANCA: Ramadan in Morocco has traditionally been a time for increased acts of help and kindness toward the needy. The distribution of food baskets, clothes, money, meals, and the organization of collective iftars normally abounds. And while numerous initiatives are already underway in the country, this year charities have noticed a slump in public donations. Appeals on social media platforms are fewer than usual and associations have witnessed a fall in collections. Charity activist Ahmed Ghayet told Arab News En Francais: “We have noticed a significant drop in the collection of donations. Moroccans have been generous this year again, but less than before. “The COVID-19 crisis, its economic repercussions, and the high cost of living have had an impact on charitable actions initiated during Ramadan. In addition, we have many more requests from people who live in precarious conditions and who have lost their jobs.” Ghayet’s association, Marocains Pluriels, has launched a special Ramadan operation to hand out food baskets in the cities of Casablanca, Oujda, Rabat, Mohammedia, Fez, Marrakesh, Essaouira, and Agadir. Twelve other charity groups have partnered in the project, now in its third edition, that distributes packages containing items such as flour, oil, sugar, lentils, chickpeas, dates, and milk. “We favor donations in kind, in food staples. But donors can also contribute up to 200 Moroccan dirhams ($20.30), which represents the price of a basket. The food is left in front of the beneficiary’s door in order to preserve their dignity, as most beneficiaries do not ask for it. You know, Moroccans are worthy and many refuse to ask for charity,” Ghayet said. He noted that this year there had been increased generosity from Jewish Moroccans. “I don’t have a precise explanation, but I feel a closeness that has become greater and a mutual trust that has been consolidated in recent months. I get as many calls from Jews as from Muslims. It’s like breaking down the barriers. “Overall, Moroccans, whatever their faith, help each other and provide support to the most vulnerable, especially in this period when precariousness is felt more and more,” he added. And the Ramadan spirit of mutual aid is carried by the north African country’s highest authority. Moroccan King Mohammed VI recently launched the Ramadan 1443 initiative in the old medina of Rabat, a national program run since 1998 by the Mohammed V Foundation for Solidarity. With a budget of 103 million dirhams, Ramadan 1443 will this year involve giving food parcels to around 3 million people (approximately 600,000 households) living in 83 provinces and prefectures of the country, 77 percent of them from rural areas. Since its launch, the national food support operation has spent more than 1.5 billion dirhams on providing aid for families. Backing has also come from other countries, with Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Qatar among nations offering financial and food support to thousands of Moroccans and charities. Despite this year’s decrease in charity donations, Ramadan has once again seen solidarity, sharing, and mutual aid among Moroccans during difficult times.