DUBAI: Just because it’s Ramadan doesn’t mean your skin needs to fast too. In fact, a nourishing, hydrating moisturizer is more important than ever during the holy season as abstaining from water for hours during the day can lead the skin to lose moisture, resulting in a dry, dehydrated dermis. As your body prioritizes hydrating your internal organs over your complexion while you’re fasting, your skin could use a little extra help. Fortunately, there are a number of formulas available on the market to ensure your skin stays flawless this Ramadan. We rounded them up based on the five common skin concerns below. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle SENSITIVE SKIN Codex Beauty is a plant-powered skincare brand that offers dermatologist-approved formulas for those with sensitive and easily irritated complexions. The eco-conscious brand’s whittled-down ingredients list is formulated to soothe irritation, redness and itchiness, making it perfect for those who suffer from skin conditions such as psoriasis and rosacea. The Bia Facial Oil is made from nourishing omega-3 and vitamins A and C to lock in moisture, eliminate dry flaky skin and boost hydration without leaving your skin greasy or oily due to its fast-absorbing properties. Its herbaceous and calming scent is just an added bonus.  Codex Beauty Bia Facial Oil, $107, Shop here DULL SKIN For brightening up a dull complexion, eliminating sunspots and boosting radiance, there is no ingredient better than vitamin C. The potent antioxidant is best known for its brightening abilities, and when applied topically it also helps to protect the skin against pigmentation and fade dark spots. Sunday Riley’s C.E.O. Vitamin C Rich Hydration Moisturizing Cream is infused with 5 percent vitamin C, making it extremely effective but still gentle enough to use twice a day. The paraben and sulfate-free formula penetrates deeply into the dermis to restore skin radiance while promoting a supple, healthy-looking complexion. Lime pearls, a mild exfoliant extracted from the caviar lime, can help encourage skin turnover to eliminate dead skin cells that contribute to dullness. Use during the day to protect the dermis from environmental stressors and after cleansing before you go to sleep to repair skin at night.  Sunday Riley C.E.O. Vitamin C Brightening Rich Hydration Moisturizer, $69, Shop here AGING SKIN Neostrata’s Skin Active collection boasts a lineup of powerful formulas that help combat the signs of aging, including discoloration and fine lines, while plumping the skin. In just four weeks, your complexion will appear brighter, firmer and smoother. The range utilizes plumping ingredients, such as NeoGlucosamine, which is a building block of the skin’s natural hyaluronic acid and helps promote firming of the complexion. May we suggest the Neostrata Dermal Replenishment? The oil-free, non-comedogenic moisturizer contains amino acid building blocks and natural sugars that attract water to help strengthen the skin’s moisture barrier. Gently smooth over a cleansed face and neck in the evening, and you’re good to go.  Neostrata Dermal Replenishment, $90, Shop here ACNE-PRONE SKIN The Verso Daily Facial Fluid is a lightweight day cream with a powerhouse ingredients list. The formula features niacinamide to reduce excess sebum production, which in turn minimizes enlarged pores and prevents congestion and breakouts. In conjunction with Retinol 8, a vitamin A complex proven to prevent acne just as well as wrinkles, this moisturizer is a must-have for those with blemish-prone complexions.  Meanwhile, hyaluronic acid provides intense hydration to reduce the appearance of dryness and dehydration lines for softer and smoother skin.  Verso Daily Facial Fluid, $92, Shop here HYPERPIGMENTATION There are two main types of hyperpigmentation: melasma, a skin condition more common in olive-toned or darker skin types, and UV ray-induced brown spots and discoloration that occur in sun-exposed sites. Of course, sunscreen is the best way to prevent hyperpigmentation, but those who want to fade existing brown spots and even out their skin tone should consider making exfoliating acids part of their daily skincare routine. Exfoliating acids gently remove the outermost layer of dead cells from the skin, revealing a much brighter complexion uniform in color underneath. The Odacité Beautiful Day Moisturizer is a lightweight moisturizer that pairs hydrating agents like coconut oil and glycerin with willow bark to gently exfoliate.  Odacité Beautiful Day Moisturizer, $75, Shop here