LOS ANGELES: US actors Tyler Hoechlin and Elizabeth Tulloch revealed a “massive” Bizarro World episode is yet to air in American network CW’s “Superman and Lois” that will blow the minds of fans. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The series is on mid-season hiatus, but Arab News was able to get a sneak preview of what is to come, including a deeper exploration of the mysteries surrounding Superman’s evil opposite, the classic comic villain Bizarro Superman. “Some more strange and – don’t hate me for saying it – bizarre things I would imagine,” Hoechlin said. A post shared by Arab News Lifestyle (@arabnews.lifestyle) Adding to his statement, Tulloch said: “Yes, episode 10, which hasn’t aired yet. It airs toward the end of April, is a Bizarro World episode, and it is massive. I feel like the fans, their minds will be blown.” CW is showing a different side of the Man of Steel in the show. Set in the superhero Clark Kent’s hometown of Smallville, the series shows a semi-retired Superman, played by Hoechlin, and renowned reporter Lois Lane (Tulloch), struggling not to save the day, but to raise their two teenage sons. Hoechlin told Arab News: “We’ve seen a lot of origin stories and things like that, so for me – what I appreciate now – is being able to see the origin stories of their boys.   “These are young men becoming men. And so, to see how they’re growing and how they’re kind of showing them along. I just think it makes it different enough that for us it makes it an exciting thing for us to jump into,” he added. The domestic take on the iconic hero, which shares a universe with fellow DC shows “Arrow,” “The Flash,” and “Batwoman,” premiered its second season as the most viewed on the CW network. With fans watching, the stars said they understood the responsibility they had in portraying the characters. “We do have a lot of respect for them, and I think part of the reason we have avoided other versions is that we do want to make it our own, and I think the fact that in our version their parents is a very easy way for us to put a sort of different stamp on it,” Tulloch added.