DUBAI: Fashion influencer and designer Karen Wazen has been unveiled as the new face of Italian label Roberto Cavalli. The Dubai-based Lebanese content creator and entrepreneur features in the womenswear brand’s latest fragrance campaign, which will be launched in February. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle This is the first time Cavalli has partnered with an ambassador from the Middle East. Wazen shared the campaign image with her 7.1 million Instagram followers this week. A post shared by Karen Wazen Bakhazi كارن وازن (@karenwazen) In the campaign, which was shot in Paris earlier this year, Wazen can be seen wearing the brand’s signature animal print. “Ah! News is out! And I need someone to pinch me please,” wrote an incredulous Wazen, who was quickly inundated with overwhelmingly positive comments on the social media platform. “I’m the new face of Roberto Cavalli fragrances globally. This is such a dream for an Arab girl from Lebanon to be the global spokesperson for such an iconic brand… thank you to the most amazing team for this opportunity and for an unforgettable experience. Thank you @faustopuglisi for believing in me and making me a part of this journey,” she added, referring to the label’s creative director, Sicilian designer Fausto Puglisi. “We are extremely excited to welcome Karen to the Cavalli family. Her liberated spirit and glamorous style embodies the iconic Cavalli universe. We are proud to kickstart our collaboration together with a campaign that celebrates the core Cavalli fragrance pillars, which are the epitome of femininity and bring together a melody of notes inspired by our Italian heritage,” Puglisi said, according to WWD magazine. The Dubai-based fashionista is one of the most influential figures in the region. In addition to boasting of a combined following of more than 12 million across her social media platforms, the mother-of-three is also an eyewear designer and has an eponymous sunglasses brand, which she launched in 2018. Last year, she launched her very first mobile game app, available on iOS and Android, titled “Karen Wazen: My World.” She has also starred in plenty of regional advertorials for prestigious brands, including Prada, Ralph Lauren, Louis Vuitton and Cartier, to name a few. In 2020, the social media influencer was also named a High Profile Supporter of UNHCR.