DUBAI: US singer Pharrell Wiliams attended Kenzo’s Spring 2022 show during Paris Fashion Week and simultaneously teased his new partnership with fine jewelry house Tiffany & Co. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The N.E.R.D singer sat front row, next to Kenzo’s new creative director Nigo, donning a pair of diamond-embellished sunglasses that got everyone talking — but not for the right reasons. Users on social media, including online fashion watchdog Diet Prada, took to the photo-sharing platform to point out the striking similarities between Pharrell’s custom sunglasses and historical Mughal antiques. The antiques in question are two pairs of frames dating back to the 17th century that were put up for auction last year by Sotheby’s. Belonging to the Mughal royals that ruled the Indian subcontinent, the extremely rare Islamic antiques feature emerald-cut lenses and were created to aid a wearer in reaching enlightenment and heal and ward off evil, according to the Sotheby’s website. A post shared by Diet Prad (@diet_prada) Legend has it that following the death of Shah Jahan’s wife Mumtaz Mahal, in whose honor the Taj Mahal was built, the emperor is said to have cried so many tears that he needed to cure his ailing eyes with emerald stones. “These extraordinary curiosities bring together myriad threads – from the technical mastery of the cutter and the genius of craftsmanship to the vision of a patron who chose to fashion two pairs of eyeglasses quite unlike anything ever seen before,” said Edward Gibbs, chair, Sotheby’s Middle East & India, ahead of the London auction last year. The Mughal bejeweled spectacles were commissioned by an unknown prince and fashioned by an artist, who shaped a 200-carat diamond and a brilliant Colombian emerald, weighing at least three hundred carats, into two frames. Now, social media users are slamming the US singer-designer for the similar shades, although Pharrell has yet to respond to the backlash. A Mughal Vibe? Let me translate; A complete copy. ‘The diamond shades are reminiscent of antique eyewear sold at Sotheby’s’ https://t.co/6iHQwIPpAH — Faria Khan (@Faria_Khan_) January 24, 2022 Copycat @Pharrell @TheHumanoidsNFT #NOIDGANG #PFW pic.twitter.com/XmrAV3B4De — SIMON (@Trill4sure) January 24, 2022