DUBAI: US actress and singer Hilary Duff turned heads this week wearing a pair of heels designed by Lebanese shoemaker Andrea Wazen. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The “Lizzie McGuire” star championed the brand’s Denver pumps in white during a press event for her upcoming show “How I Met Your Father,” which will premiere on Hulu on Jan. 18. The 10-episode comedy series is a sequel to the CBS hit sitcom “How I Met Your Mother.”  A post shared by Hilary Duff (@hilaryduff) Duff, who is also the producer of the series, will play the role of Sophie, the show’s protagonist, who tells her son the story of how she met his father. During the press event, Duff paired the heels with a printed thigh-high dress in blue by US label Rhode that featured a ruched skirt with a side ruffle, elbow-length puff sleeves and a round neckline. “This whole thang to sit in a chair from 9-7 yesterday doing press, but those shoes and that gloss lid were sass,” wrote Duff to her 19.7 million Instagram followers, complimenting Wazen’s creations. Duff is known for championing labels from around the world.  A post shared by Hilary Duff (@hilaryduff) In November, the star turned to a British-Afghan-Pakistani designer for the 2021 Baby2Baby gala at Hollywood’s Pacific Design Centre. The 34-year-old actress was a vision in a dazzling hot pink dress by UK-based label Osman, which featured a plunging neckline, dramatic sleeves and thigh-high slit. Duff is not the only celebrity fan of Wazen, however. In fact, the Lebanese label is shaping up to be the next big footwear brand to watch.  A post shared by Alyssa Milano (@milano_alyssa) Since launching in 2013, the label’s strappy sandals and stilettos have made their way onto the pedicured toes of A-listers and It-girls across the globe, including Beyonce, Megan Fox, Hailey Bieber, Khloe Kardashian, Kylie Jenner and Addison Rae, who have all championed Wazen’s creations. Just this week, US actress Alyssa Milano wore the label’s black Denver pumps during an interview with celebrity interviewer Steve Varley for her new Netflix film “Brazen.”