KHARTOUM: Sudan’s military chief General Abdel Fattah Al-Burhan appointed 15 ministers in the government, a statement from the Sovereign Council said on Thursday.
Burhan’s appointments, most of whom had been promoted to acting roles by former Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, include Ali Sadek Ali for the foreign ministry and Mohammed Abdallah Mahmoud for the energy portfolio. No prime minister or defense or interior ministers were named.
After a failed bid by Hamdok to salvage some civilian control following the coup, the UN has been trying to facilitate dialogue between opposing factions.
Earlier on Thursday, the council agreed with a US delegation on forming a national independent government of technocrats and launching a comprehensive national dialogue to resolve the current political crisis.
In a statement, Sudan’s ruling council affirmed the need for national dialogue, a technocratic Cabinet, and adjustments to a transitional constitutional document negotiated after the ousting of former leader Omar Al-Bashir in a 2019 uprising.
Meanwhile, Sudanese head of judiciary and judges condemned violence against anti-military protesters in a rare public statement.
At least 72 civilians have died and more than 2,000 have been injured as security forces have cracked down on frequent demonstrations since a military takeover on Oct. 25, according to medics aligned with the protest movement.
A statement from 55 Sudanese judges to the judiciary chief said military leaders had “violated agreements and covenants since the October 25 coup, as they have carried out the most heinous violations against defenseless protesters.”
They called for an end to the violence and a criminal investigation.
In response, the head of the judiciary said in a statement that the ruling sovereign council must do the utmost to prevent violations.
“We in the judiciary affirm that we will not hesitate to take the measures we have at hand to protect the lives and constitutional rights of citizens,” the statement said.
Separately, more than 100 prosecutors announced they would stop work from Thursday to call for security forces to cease violations and lift a state of emergency. They said prosecutors had been unable to carry out their legal duty to accompany police to protests and determine the acceptable use of force.
It is unusual for Sudan’s judges and prosecutors to make public statements about the conduct of the security forces.
Sudanese security forces continued to fired tear gas at protesters on Thursday rallying against the killing of dozens in the post-coup crackdown.
In a tactic used repeatedly, security forces fired tear gas at protesters who rallied in the capital’s twin city of Omdurman, according to witnesses.
Thursday’s protests came following calls by Sudan’s main civilian bloc — the Forces for Freedom and Change — for demonstrations “in tribute to the martyrs.”
Protesters converged from several parts of the capital onto a main artery in east Khartoum, according to an AFP correspondent.
In Wad Madani city to the south, protesters chanted “blood for blood, we will not accept compensations,” according Adel Ahmed, a witness.
“The military should go back to the barracks,” protesters hollered at one Khartoum rally.
Others gathered outside the United Nations headquarters in Khartoum with banners reading: “No to external solutions.”
They also called on the UN special representative to Sudan, Volker Perthes, “to leave.”(With Reuters and AFP)