DUBAI: The Coca-Cola Co. has lit up the Burj Khalifa in Dubai as part of the unveiling of its new global philosophy, Real Magic. Announced at the end of last year, the philosophy has been accompanied by a refreshed brand identity including a new take on the Coca-Cola logo called the hug. The logo lifts the curved Coca-Cola trademark on bottles and cans “to provide a visual signature that will embrace and frame moments of magic,” the company said in a statement. The philosophy has been built around key lessons learned over the last 18 months: That magical experiences can be had anywhere when people come together in unexpected moments that elevate the everyday into the extraordinary, the drinks firm added. Speaking on the announcement last year, Manolo Arroyo, chief marketing officer for The Coca-Cola Co., said: “We’re at an inflection point. The last 18 months have disrupted every aspect of life and presented us with a once-in-a-generation choice to go back to a binary, black-and-white way of seeing the world or help make the world a better place. “Real Magic is about creating a movement to choose a more human way of doing things by embracing our unique perspectives.” Tarun Sabhlok, regional marketing director for the Middle East at The Coca-Cola Co., said: “Magic isn’t about the unbelievable or mystical, but about those moments of real human connection. Real Magic can happen at any given moment and can be extraordinary.” He pointed out that the philosophy was “rooted in the belief that differences can make the world a more interesting place,” adding that was why the brand had chosen “the most diverse nation in the world” and “the most iconic landmark in the region, the Burj Khalifa” to celebrate the campaign. Coca-Cola is collaborating with renowned artists, photographers, and illustrators to bring the concept of Real Magic to life by embracing the hug logo. Design partners include Wieden+Kennedy London, KnownUnknown, and Kenyon Weston. Rapha Abreu, The Coca-Cola Co.’s global vice president of design, said the different styles would provide a variety of visuals for the campaign ranging from realistic to abstract, making it “the most diverse visual representation of the Coca-Cola brand in our history.” He added: “It is diverse not only in the creatives who helped bring Real Magic to life and the people featured in the work, but also in the different photography and illustration styles, colors, and treatments used.” Real Magic is aimed at increasing the brand’s consumer base through different experiences connected to various consumer interests, such as music and gaming. Arroyo said: “Real Magic is not just a tagline. We see it as a philosophy that transcends advertising and embodies all that is special about the brand. It will serve as our North Star by shaping all expressions of the Coca-Cola trademark in its next chapter.”