DUBAI: These are the biggest hairstyle trends to have on your radar for 2022, according to stylist Michay Alexander from Dubai’s Stay Flawless Beauty Lounge. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Brown Balayage A post shared by Jessica Kahawaty جيسيكا قهواتي (@jessicakahawaty) This is a great way to revive dark hair colors without opting for a drastic change. A brown balayage will give the hair a good amount of dimension and a subtle sun-kissed look that works for almost everyone. The varying shades of brown placed throughout the hair add a pop of liveliness whilst looking natural. Grown-out Curtain Bangs A post shared by P (@parvbar) This is for people who fancy a change, but don’t want to cut a short fringe. Grown-out curtain bangs are shorter in the middle with slightly winged longer sides, giving hair the volume and shape it needs. This cut falls between a fringe and front layers, making it versatile and easy to maintain to look beautiful on all hair textures. The ‘Bixie’ A post shared by اص (@asallahkamel) This haircut is a combination of two distinctive haircuts – the bob and the pixie. It gives a length that is considered to be too long for a pixie, and too short to be a bob. This style comprises of a mix of layers that adds dimension and texture to the hair. Although popular back in the 90s, the “bixie” is ready to make a dazzling comeback in 2022. The Boy Bob A post shared by Lana (@lana_.jpg) This classic cut has several variations, but the one trending this year will be the chunky boy bob. It will be a fuller version of the original bob cut with a lot of natural texture. The cut can range from chin to collarbone length with slightly rough, undone ends to add texture and bounce. Curl-Ready Hairstyles A post shared by huda shahin | (@hudashahinn) This year, curly hair and hairstyles are going to be more popular than ever. It is time to embrace natural texture and make the most out of curly locks. Adding layers and air-drying the hair will add more body and life to the curls. Hair Accessories A post shared by Ola (@olafarahat) No matter what hairstyle you opt for, this year is all about accessorizing those luscious locks. Whether you want to bling it up, or tone it down, adorn your hair with headbands, clips, scarves or bows to complete your look.