DUBAI: French-Algerian actress Lyna Khoudri took to social media to celebrate her latest film, which has been dominating awards ceremonies on the international film festival circuit as of late. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “Gagarine,” starring Khoudri, most recently took home the Lumière prize for Best Debut Film at France’s Lumière Awards and the actress took to Instagram to celebrate on Tuesday. “Lumière for the best first film for @gagarinefilm,” wrote the actress on Instagram. “Thank you, my forever friends, for this perfect night,” she added, alongside a picture of herself and “Gagarine” co-star Alséni Bathily at the awards ceremony. A post shared by lynakhoudri (@lynakhoudri) Khoudri and Bathily accepted the prize on behalf of the film’s directors, Fanny Liatard and Jérémy Trouilh, who were unable to be present at the Jan. 18 event. The film also won awards at the Athens International Film Festival, Philadelphia Film Festival and Mons International Film Festival. The movie is a bittersweet French story of a housing complex on the outskirts of Paris. Inaugurated and named after Russian cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin, the complex is found to be in a state of disrepair and faces demolition.   But 16-year-old Yuri (played by Bathily) refuses to leave. He has nowhere to go after his mother abandoned him. Yuri is a good handyman and with two friends, Houssam (Jamil McCraven) and Diana (Khoudri), tries to carry out repairs with second hand materials before the inspection. He fails, but is inspired to recreate a spaceship in the building’s basement. Despite the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the 27th edition of the Lumiere Awards took place in the presence of a limited audience, which included Khoudri, who for the occasion donned a design from her go-to label. The actress was a vision wearing a sheer slip dress from Parisian maison Chanel, for whom she serves as a muse. She paired the logo-covered slip dress with a pair of eye-catching sparkling MaryJane pumps. A post shared by La Boîte À Questions (@baqcanal) The actress also sat down with French television channel Canal+ to answer a series of questions. She stated that she was “very happy and proud” that “Gagarine” won the Best Debut Film award because it is an “excellent film” and she finds it “well deserved.” When asked what advice she would give to young, aspiring actors, Khoudri said to “believe in your dreams” and “work hard.” “Gagarine” first screened at the Cannes Market on a virtual platform in June 2020.