DUBAI: French-Algerian singer Lolo Zouai to open up for Dua Lipa For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle After a two-year delay caused by pandemic restrictions, Dua Lipa’s “Future Nostalgia” North American tour will kick off in Miami on Feb. 9. The British-Albanian hitmaker is set to hit the stage in major cities across the US and Canada alongside opening act French-Algerian singer Lolo Zouai. A post shared by Lolo Zouaï (@lolozouai) “The Future Nostalgia tour starts in 10 days. Two years later and it’s finally time, baby. What songs do you want to hear me sing? (I will be serving looks nightly),” Zouai wrote on Instagram this week. The singer, who divides her time between Brooklyn and Los Angeles, has previously supported US singer Alina Baraz during her 2018 tour, in addition to headlining her own European tour the same year. In 2019, Zouai (pronounced “Zoo-Eye”) headlined her “High Highs to Low Lows” tour to promote her EP of the same name. The part-Algerian singer, who was born Laureen Zouai to a French mother and an Algerian father in Paris, certainly has a lot to look forward to in 2022. A post shared by Lolo Zouaï (@lolozouai) In addition to opening up for Lipa, Zouai has a new album in the works. The 28-date arena “Future Nostalgia” tour in support of Lipa’s Grammy-winning second studio album is expected to hit all major cities across the US and Canada, including a headlining show at Madison Square Garden in New York City and the Forum in Los Angeles, before wrapping at the Rogers Arena in Vancouver on April 1. Lipa and Zouai will be joined by Megan Thee Stallion and Caroline Plachek, who were also tapped as special guests. Following the North American tour, the artists will head across the Atlantic for Lipa’s European tour, which is due to kick off on April 15. “I’m so thrilled to tour again and see my angels in person. How amazing that we all get to dance and celebrate together once again,” said Lipa. “When I was writing ‘Future Nostalgia,’ I imagined the songs being played in clubs on nights out with your mates. I’m so excited that this fantasy is finally coming true. I can’t wait to experience these songs with you together live.”