RIYADH: In a significant move to boost Saudi-Russian relations, Russian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Sergey G. Kozlov recently announced the appointment of Tarik bin Abdul Hadi Al-Qahtani as honorary consul of the Russian Federation in the Eastern Province. The announcement was made after the approval of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the approval of Saudi Minister of Foreign Affairs Prince Faisal bin Farhan. Al-Qahtani, who is also chairman of the Saudi-Russian Business Council, will serve as honorary consul of the Russian Federation in Dammam. The Russian envoy said the decision to appoint Al-Qahtani is “a symbolic step in light of the celebrations of the 95th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two friendly countries.” Russia was the first foreign country to recognize Saudi Arabia officially in 1926, he added. Kozlov said: “This step reflects the level and nature of the distinguished relations between the two countries, which are progressing towards a strategic partnership under the leadership of King Salman and President Vladimir Putin, in the interest of the two great countries, the region and the world at large.” The ambassador added: “The joining of our brother and friend Tariq Al-Qahtani to the diplomatic team at the Russian Embassy in Riyadh will enhance and develop fraternal relations.” Al-Qahtani thanked King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for “the development and the greater heights that Saudi-Russian relations have reached in all fields.” He also thanked the Russian government and the friendly Russian people for giving him the honor by appointing him an honorary consul of Russia in the Kingdom. Al-Qahtani said: “This position is an honor and a precious trust,” praising the growing Saudi-Russian economic and investment relations. He added that there are many investment opportunities, which have attracted keen interest among investors from both sides, especially in the light of the political stability and economic boom that the Kingdom is enjoying.