JEDDAH: A host of leading golfers have been added to the line-up for next month’s PIF Saudi International powered by Softbank Investment Advisers. The tournament returns to the Royal Greens Golf and Country Club at King Abdullah Economic City from Feb. 3-6. The 2018 Masters Champion Patrick Reed will once again be returning to Saudi Arabia, playing in every tournament since the inaugural event in 2019. Another confirmed US Ryder Cup star is Tony Finau, who finished runner-up to Dustin Johnson last year and will be looking to go one better to kickstart his 2022 season. Alongside four of the world’s top 10, the tournament will also see several new faces with a debut for Matthew Wolff, one of golf’s hottest young talents. Further newcomers to KAEC will be exciting Australian trio Cameron Smith, Marc Leishman and Lucas Herbert. Frenchman Victor Perez will also join a star-studded field competing for an increased prize purse of $5 million and one of the highest OWGR point totals in international golf. Already confirmed were defending champion Dustin Johnson, Bryson DeChambeau, Louis Oosthuizen, Sergio Garcia, Xander Schauffele, Tommy Fleetwood and Phil Mickelson. Majed Al-Sorour, CEO and deputy chairman of Golf Saudi and the Saudi Golf Federation, said: “We have a truly world class international field assembling for the 2022 edition of the Saudi International. The mix of the world’s best players from across the US, Europe and Asia Pacific will make this year our most anticipated yet. Bringing together strong fields for our international men’s and women’s events has shown to play a vital role in driving participation and engagement in the sport in Saudi Arabia. “The commitment from our long-term partners at the PIF to take the title position on the event has provided further recognition that the event has reached a level of strategic importance for Saudi Arabia, impacting our schools and grassroots programmes as well as our rapidly improving national teams as part of the long journey we’re on in Saudi Arabia.” Alongside some of the star names confirmed will be the leading 30 players from the final 2020-21 Asian Tour Order of Merit — which will be finalized after this month’s Singapore International and SMBC Singapore Open. Wade Ormsby (Australia), Phachara Khongwatmai (Thailand) and Joohyung Kim (South Korea) are the current top-three ranked players. PIF Saudi International powered by Softbank Investment Advisers recently announced a 10-year partnership with the Asian Tour, which will play a key role in helping the tour to establish itself in the global game. Cho Minn Thant, commissioner and CEO of the Asian Tour, added: “We are under a month to go before one of the biggest events in the history of the Asian Tour. And with our season-ending double-header in Singapore approaching to confirm our top 30 players from the Order of Merit, we are all set for a hugely significant week.”