DUBAI: Just like fashion and beauty, skincare also has its yearly trends. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle To learn more about the forecast for 2022, Arab News sat down with Ryan Saddik, general manager for the Middle East and North Africa region at the Swedish beauty company Foreo. The expert said that the first trend that consumers are going for this year is clean beauty.   “Consumers are very aware of what they are putting on their skin and are looking for products with less chemicals and more clean ingredients,” he said. He also believes that beauty lovers are stepping away from the multi-step skincare practices and are opting for “personalized routines,” adding that consumers are starting to become more conscious of the labels they opt for and the ingredients in their skincare products. Over the past few years, beauty-focused technology has been garnering the attention of beauty gurus, including US-Iraqi entrepreneur and blogger Huda Kattan and part-Saudi model Shanina Shaik. The social media stars have previously shared snaps of themselves using light therapy treatments that are said to make the skin look smoother and fuller, for example. A post shared by FOREO MiddleEast & Africa (@foreo_mea) “Consumers are looking into smarter tech-beauty gadgets that will enable them to keep up with their skincare treatments, all in the comfort of their own homes,” said Saddik. “Technology-infused skincare, LED lights and micro currents are no longer as niche as they used to be — and Saudi Arabia sees more people dabbling in beauty tech.” Foreo recently launched a new beauty tool called BEAR — a microcurrent facelift device that is available in the Kingdom. A post shared by FOREO MiddleEast & Africa (@foreo_mea) According to Saddik, the device is “the world’s first FDA-cleared medical microcurrent tool with an anti-shock system, which makes it the safest microcurrent device available. “With Saudi Arabia being one of the key markets for us, it’s important to be available and on-hand to customers at all times,” Saddik said. “A facial workout with the much-loved microcurrent technology is one of the things in beauty that is for sure getting more and more attention.”