DUBAI: Loli Bahia is the breakout model to watch out for this fashion month. The French-Algerian rising star is having a stellar Paris Fashion Week and has already turned heads on the runways of Alaia, Paco Rabanne and Schiaparelli. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Paris-based model’s season kicked off at Alaia, where she helped designer Pieter Mulier showcase his second collection as creative director for the fashion house, which he now helms following Tunisian couturier Azzedine Alaia’s death in 2018.   Bahia took to the runway wearing a black oversized blazer dress featuring a white dramatic skirt derived from the late Tunisian couturier’s Spanish skirts from 1982 and 1988. The look was paired with black thigh-high boots. She wasn’t the only model of Arab descent to strut down the label’s runway, shown off-schedule in Paris. The part-Algerian beauty walked alongside Moroccan-British Nora Attal. She went on to join the likes of Louise Robert, Akon Changkou and Giselle Norman at Paco Rabanne’s Fall 2022 runway presentation during Paris Fashion Week. Bahia strutted down the catwalk wearing a cropped wool turtleneck sweater paired with a matching wool and blue grain de poudre slit skirt that was studded with domed silver buttons.   She later hit Schiaparelli’s surrealist show wearing a black silk crepe mini dress with black frothy curls sprouting from the shoulders that bounced as she moved down the runway of the Petit Palais. At just 19, Bahia is quickly shaping up to be one of the most in-demand models in the industry, becoming a runway fixture in just a couple of months after a breakthrough Spring 2022 fashion month, where she walked in 65 shows. The rising star strutted down the catwalks of a host of prestigious labels, including Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Givenchy, Lanvin and Valentino, to name but a few. Bahia, who is signed to Women Management Paris, made her runway debut in 2020 at Louis Vuitton’s Fall 2021 show. She would go on to star in the Parisian luxury house’s advertising campaign for Fall 2021. She has also featured in campaigns for Saint Laurent, Courreges and Max Mara in addition to starring on the cover of Vogue Italia.