RIYADH: Representatives from Western and Gulf Arab countries met in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, on Tuesday to discuss joint efforts to support the stability and prosperity of Sudan.
The Friends of Sudan, including officials from the UAE, US, UK, Germany, France, Sweden, Norway, UN, African Union, Arab League, World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund, held their meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Riyadh.
“The meeting discussed ways to strengthen joint cooperation to support all efforts that ensure a peaceful political transition in Sudan,” a statement issued by Saudi Press Agency said.
The group also discussed ways to further assist and support the efforts of the UN Integrated Transition Assistance Mission in Sudan (UNITAMS).
Earlier on Tuesday, UN special representative for Sudan Volker Perthes confirmed the meeting was underway on Twitter, however, he was not able to attend in person, only virtually, as he had tested positive for COVID-19.
“International support and leverage is needed, Perthes said, adding: “Support for political process needs to go along with active support to stop violence.”
He also expressed deep concern over Monday’s violence. Sudanese security forces opened fire on anti-coup protesters in Khartoum, killing seven people. “Friends of Sudan”-group now meets in Riyadh. Deep concern about yesterday’s violence. International support and leverage is needed. Support for political process needs to go along with active support to stop violence. Unfortunately, because of Covid, only participate virtually. pic.twitter.com/Rb7E1S3mij — Volker Perthes (@volkerperthes) January 18, 2022 Eid bin Mohammed Al-Thaqafi, the undersecretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Political and Economic Affairs, attended the meeting on behalf of Saudi Arabia.
US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Molly Phee and newly-appointed envoy for the Horn of Africa David Satterfield, who met with the Saudi foreign minister a day earlier, also attend the one-day conference.
The meeting comes a day after representatives of the Sudanese quartet — Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Britain and the US — met in Riyadh to also discuss efforts to support Sudan and assist UNITAMS.