Mashour Alfadul is an accomplished Saudi entrepreneur with more than 12 years’ experience in finance and economics, energy and real estate, with a current focus on higher education.
Alfadul is the founder of the education consultancy firm Interstu, which falls in line with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 for expanding educational opportunities for Saudi students.
Established in the UK in 2009, Interstu supports Saudi and international students by providing educational expertise to help them to secure positions in top universities in the UK, US and Canada.
Interstu also provides services before and after acceptance into university, such as visa applications, securing accommodation, career guidance, document translation and health and service insurance.
According to Alfadul, Interstu helps students develop the skills required to fulfill their educational aspirations.
Alfadul graduated from the House of Knowledge International School, in Jeddah, and holds a bachelor’s in economics and finance and a master’s in banking and finance with distinction, both from Queen Mary University of London. Since Interstu took off, Alfadul has founded several other companies to support his business.
In 2016, Alfadul set up Mirador Estate, a London-based property and real estate company with expertise in property acquisition, sales and lettings, holiday and serviced apartments, property management and co-investment.
In 2017, he founded Grand River Group, which provides services to renewable energy and infrastructure projects, in line with the company’s strict ethics and moral code of conduct.
Notable projects include partnering with a leading German company to provide small-scale solar PV systems in Saudi Arabia — a primary target of Vision 2030 to achieve the use of diverse renewable energy in the Kingdom.
In 2019, he founded Medicare, which offers bespoke healthcare packages for international students studying in the UK, partnering with renowned providers including the London Clinic — one of England’s biggest and most well-known private hospitals — and ISO Kinetic London (FIFA Medical Centre of Excellence).