JEDDAH: Many Saudis expressed sorrow over the loss of the great comedian Bob Saget, best known for starring in the 80s sitcom “Full House” as Danny Tanner and hosting the popular show “America’s Funniest Home Videos.”
Saget, 65, was found dead in on Sunday in a room at the Ritz-Carlton Orlando, Grande Lakes, according to news reports. Saget was in Florida as part of his “I Don’t Do Negative Comedy” tour.
Hatim Al-Zahrani told Arab News that he along with many other Saudis used to watch Saget’s show on Saudi Channel 2 during Ramadan. “Bob Saget was … hilarious. He brought so much laughter and smiles to our house each night during Ramadan,” he said.
For 45-year-old Samir Al-Saadi, Saget’s death was “a rude shock.” He said: “Back in Ramadan, we never missed any of the ‘Full House’ episodes and we watched ‘America’s Funniest Home Videos’ every night and enjoyed every moment of it.”   He added: “Bob Saget’s loss is sad. My prayers go out to his family. He was not only a household name in the US but in the entire world. I grew up watching ‘Full House’ and ‘America’s Funniest Home Videos’ in Saudi Arabia. They were among the most-watched shows after iftar during Ramadan.”
Saget was widely known for his wit and almost all the millennials in Saudi Arabia considered him one of the funniest people in the entertainment business. As the news of his death spread, many Saudis took to social media to share their memories and sentiments for the iconic actor and comedian.
Mohammed Assiri told Arab News that he shared Saget’s picture online, adding: “Good bye, Bob Saget, you were sweet and had (a) beautiful smile. You were part of our memory and I will never forget you.”
Khalid Al-Jarallah, a well-known Saudi journalist, also shared a picture of Saget on Twitter and captioned it “He made us happy.”
A nostalgic Abu Dana from Hafar Al-Batin said that, back in the day, even when she did not understand the English language, she would ask her brother to turn on the TV so she could watch ‘America’s Funniest Home Video’s’ because it “made me laugh.”
Majed Al-Jabarah wrote alongside a broken heart emoji: “RIP Bob … He was part of our childhood … he made adults and children happy.”
Dr. Khader Almathami said: “I am sure those who were born in this millennium do not know Bob Saget very well, but he was one of the best comedians in the 80s and 90s. I still remember his shows on Saudi Channel 2.”