RIYADH: The Saudi and Jordanian foreign ministers on Monday condemned attacks by the Iran-backed Houthi militia against the Kingdom. 
The remarks were made at a joint press conference in Amman with Saudi foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan and his Jordanian counterpart Ayman Safadi. 
The Iran-backed Houthi militia in Yemen have been launching near daily cross border attacks on Saudi Arabia’ southern region, the latest of which have been intercepted and destroyed by the Kingdom’s air defenses.
During their meeting, the two ministers discussed the importance of intensifying efforts aimed at preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons, freeing the Middle East of weapons of mass destruction, and strengthening cooperation in combating terrorism and extremism. They also reviewed the recent developments in Afghanistan and the need to stand with the Afghan people during their humanitarian crisis.
The Saudi minister appreciated the efforts made by Jordan in supporting the Palestinian issue and the Palestinian people in obtaining their rights. #Amman | Foreign Minister H.H Prince @FaisalbinFarhan met with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and Expatriates of the Hashemite Kingdom of #Jordan H.E Dr. @AymanHsafadi. pic.twitter.com/VWVvuhKWZV — Foreign Ministry (@KSAmofaEN) January 3, 2022 Prince Faisal, who is on an official visit to Jordan, and Safadi also discussed “many regional and international issues of common interest, the most important of which is strengthening joint work and coordination in order to lay the foundations for security and stability in the Arab region and the Middle East,” the Saudi foreign ministry said.
Prince Faisal thanked Jordan for supporting the Kingdom’s request to host Expo 2030, while the Jordanian minister said that the Kingdom’s success in hosting the World Expo is seen as a success for his country, and enhances the prosperity and development of the Middle East region. 
Safadi also reaffirmed the Hashemite kingdom’s stance toward any threats to Saudi Arabia’s security, stability and territorial integrity.
The two sides also reviewed bilateral relations and ways of strengthening them in many areas.