LONDON: An Arabic-language satirical Israeli song criticising normalization between Israel and the UAE has gone viral in the Middle East this week, causing a stir online. The song “Dubai, Dubai” was performed by Israeli comedian and activist Noam Shuster-Eliassi and appeared as part of a comedy sketch on the Arabic-language station Makan 33’s “Shu-Esmo” program. Shuster-Eliassi, who speaks Arabic fluently and is a strong advocate of Palestinian rights, criticized the peace agreement between Israel and the UAE, highlighting the hypocrisy of Israel’s position on Arab countries. The parody song begins with the comedian introducing herself as “Haifa Wannabe,” a reference to the famous Arab singer Haifa Wehbe. Shuster-Eliassi then goes on to say that she’s “going to sing an original song I wrote in Arabic in celebration of the peace treaty with Dubai, but in general — it’s very important for me to send out a message of love and peace, particularly if it is found 4,000 kilometers away from here.”  The song’s lyrics include: “At the end of the tunnel there is light, and if only all of the Arabs, like those who are in Dubai who have money, would love the people of Israel and not throw us into the sea. “There is nothing quite like Arabs who have millions, and who have forgotten the members of their people who underwent a Naqba, who have forgotten Palestine. In Dubai, they forgot the siege on Gaza, how nice would it be if only all the Arabs were from Dubai.” The song went viral on Arab media outlets sparking a storm from supporters, particularly on social media sites. One user, Ahmad Ghanim, tweeted: “The song is a mix of Hebrew and Arabic, and speaks of cooperation between UAE and Israel against the Palestinians. It also speaks about how Arabs have forgotten about Palestine and the suffering of its people. We sincerely appreciate what (the singer) is doing.” The song is mixed of Arabic and Hebrew, it talkes about how UAE collaborates with Israel against PALESTINE. Also talkes about how Arab forgot PALESTINE and the suffering of the Palestinian people.
The Singer is Jewish i suppose, that's why we appreciate what she does.
Sincerely — Ahmad Ghanim (@CallMeA7mad) January 14, 2022 Another said: “This is the best thing I’ve seen on Twitter in a while.” This is the best thing I’ve seen on Twitter in a while — Dr. G (@jdaitta) January 14, 2022 Meanwhile, Shuster-Eliassi tweeted: “Have you ever recovered from covid for the 2nd time while causing a diplomatic incident with a viral video mocking a ‘peace’ agreement between 2 governments who were never at conflict, trade weapons anyways and ignore Palestinian human right? Don’t try this at home.” Have you ever recovered from covid for the 2nd time while causing a diplomatic incident with a viral video mocking a “peace” agreement between 2 governments who were never at conflict, trade weapons anyways and ignore Palestinian human right? Don’t try this at homepic.twitter.com/PnoGTHhzpc — Noam Shuster Eliassi (@ShusterNoam) January 17, 2022 