DUBAI: Yara Shahidi’s first makeup campaign as the face for Dior has been released. The French luxury maison named the part-Middle Eastern star as a global ambassador in July, tapping the “Grown-ish” actress to be the face of its fashion and cosmetics lines. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle A post shared by Dior Official (@dior) “A NEW GENERATION FOREVER IS COMING…Dior Global Brand Ambassador @YaraShahidi, award-winning actress, producer, and inspiring change agent, is now part of the Forever sisterhood movement as a new face alongside @NataliePortman,” the brand captioned the campaign photo on Instagram. “The surreal moment when you’re scrolling on Instagram and see that your makeup campaign just dropped,” wrote Shahidi on her Instagram Stories, alongside a mind blown emoji. Shahidi joins a cohort of A-list Dior ambassadors, including Hollywood star Natalie Portman, Australian actress Elizabeth Debicki, British supermodel Cara Delevingne, “The Queen’s Gambit” star Anya Taylor-Joy and South Korean singer Jisoo of Blackpink, among others. This is not the first time the 21-year-old actress, producer and Harvard student has worked with Dior. For last International Women’s Day, Shahidi starred in the brand’s “Dior Stands with Women” campaign created by actress Charlize Theron. Shahidi was featured in a series of portraits and videos alongside Portman, Chinese actress and singer Li Bingbing, US model Dilone, South Korean figure skater Kim Yuna, Iranian-French architect India Mahdavi and French-Moroccan writer and journalist Leila Slimani. The actress has also worn Dior many times in the past. At the 2021 Met Gala, “In America: A Lexicon of Fashion,” Shahidi arrived wearing a heavily-beaded tan Dior gown with a trained veil to match. A few months before that, she turned heads at the 2021 Critics’ Choice Awards wearing a delicately embroidered top, worn beneath a bell-sleeved blouse and paired with a tulle skirt plucked from creative director Maria Grazia Chiuri’s tarot-themed Spring 2021 Dior Haute Couture collection. More recently, at the 2021 Emmy Awards in September, the US-Iranian star was a vision on the red carpet in an electric green off-the-shoulder gown courtesy of Dior. When interviewed about her look, styled by Jason Bolden, she said: “I’m a proud member of the family.”