JEDDAH: A video shot at the Dakar Rally has gone viral after appearing to show a pickup truck outperforming other vehicles in the race.
The video features a Nissan Datsun 2015 model, whose driver outperforms a Belgium racer.
But the video was a practical joke played by 24-year-old Saudi driver Mishal Al-Schlowi, who through cunning camera angles and ingenuity, staged the whole thing.
Al-Shlowi was driving parallel to the Belgian, but off the track, giving him an advantage.
The video received a large number of reactions on social media after it went viral on Twitter.
It was shot by one of the helicopter videographers who usually follow the rally racers.
Al-Shlowi, from Taif, told Arab News that he is a big fan of the rally.
“On Friday morning, I was driving at an approximate speed of 110 to 120 kilometers per hour. Once we saw the Belgium racer on the road, me and my friend next to me became super excited,” he said.
“The videographer in the helicopter gave us some signs to go ahead once we started to drive in a parallel track, and his signs gave me the courage to go faster and outperform the racer.”
The adventurous driver said that he was cautious and aware of what he was doing. “I was driving on the other side of the main rally track to avoid any sudden accidents.”
Al-Shlowi added that before he completed the stunt, he was on his way to check on nearby livestock. He praised the efforts of the organizers in informing local farmers of the race, so as to avoid accidents.
“I drive in off-road areas, about 50 kilometers per day, to reach my college in Taif city. I know how to deal with difficult landforms very well,” he said.
One of Al-Shlowi’s dreams is to take part in the Dakar Rally, but he said that it is very costly. “My biggest role model in the race is our amazing champion Yazeed Al-Rajhi. I wish to be part of upcoming Dakar rallies,” he added.
Yazeed Al-Rajhi himself commented on the viral video, and said: “The rally car that appeared in the viral video is an old classic car. It has a different route than the main one. Usually, it is for amateur first-time participants.”
Another well-known Saudi car enthusiast, Hasan Kutbi, shared the video in a tweet with a funny comment: “The Datsun driver announces winning the race, and he demands an award as well.”
Dakar Rally 2022 marked its third edition in Saudi Arabia and the 44th in history on Jan. 1. The race ended on Jan 14.
Qatari racer Nasser Al-Attiyah won first place, while Saudi driver Yazeed Al-Rajhi placed third for his first Dakar podium finish in his eighth attempt.
The event is considered one of the most prestigious and challenging in the world of motor sports. This year’s edition was the largest in terms of participation, drawing 650 racers from more than 70 countries around the world.
It included 430 vehicles across all race categories. The Dakar Classic category included 148 vehicles designed before 2000, as well as vintage cars and trucks.