RIYADH: UAE Vice President, Prime Minister and ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid met Israeli President Isaac Herzog at the UAE pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, state news agency WAM reported on Monday.
Sheikh Mohammed welcomed Herzog, who is on his first official visit to the UAE, and the two sides discussed the future of economic, commercial and investment cooperation.
They also held talks on raising the level of scientific and technological cooperation and other paths that supported the future of development, as well as various regional and international developments, issues of common concern, and international efforts to accelerate the pace of global recovery. Excellent discussion today with the Ruler of Dubai, HH Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum @HHShkMohd. We discussed a range of issues, including deepening collaboration in trade, innovation, tourism and investments. We also discussed Israel & UAE's special shared history. pic.twitter.com/7di93pRqcd — יצחק הרצוג Isaac Herzog (@Isaac_Herzog) January 31, 2022 Sheikh Mohammed said that Israel’s participation in the expo, along with more than 190 countries, opened several areas for cooperation as “the mega global event seeks to shape a better future for humanity based on peaceful coexistence and sharing of expertise and resources.”
Herzog and his wife Michal visited the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi as part of his official visit. While meeting the Israeli president at Expo 2020 Dubai On his first visit to the UAE.
We discussed aspects of trade, investment and technological cooperation.. we welcomed their participation in the largest international cultural event, Expo 2020. pic.twitter.com/LiBnCxa2ob — HH Sheikh Mohammed (@HHShkMohd) January 31, 2022 Mohammed Al-Khajja, the UAE’s ambassador to Israel, and Amir Hayek, Israeli ambassador to the UAE, and several senior Israeli officials accompanied Herzog.
Dr. Yousif Al-Obaidli, director-general of the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque Center, accompanied the president and his accompanying delegation on a tour of the mosque’s halls and external corridors.
They were briefed by one of the center’s cultural tour specialists about the mosque’s message “that underscores notions of coexistence, tolerance, and openness to cultures, emanating from the nation’s late founder’s rich legacy,” according to a statement on WAM.
They also learned about the mosque’s history, components, and aesthetic features of Islamic art and architecture. Finishing a very moving, historic visit to the UAE at the invitation of a great leader, HH Sheikh @MohamedBinZayed. There is huge potential for our two nations. Together, we can truly lead the Middle East toward a new horizon of peace, prosperity, and cooperation. pic.twitter.com/xXOn6gDOOm — יצחק הרצוג Isaac Herzog (@Isaac_Herzog) January 31, 2022 The Israeli leader was presented with two of the center’s publications at the end of the visit.
One was “Spaces of Light” and showcases the winning photographs from the “Spaces of Light” photography award, which is held annually by the center in celebration of the aesthetics and visual culture of the mosque.
The other was “Houses of God” and is about places of worship in Islamic history, including the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque.