Endurance horse racing champion Carmine Villani has led a rich and colorful life that has seen him shine in business and sport. Today, the world No.1 will represent Great Britain at the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques Endurance Cup 2022 (Fursan Cup) at AlUla. Villani was a talented athlete as a young man — first in Italy and then the US — excelling as a middle-distance runner. After graduating from the University of Texas in Austin, he went on to become heavily involved in sports car racing. However, an affinity with horses has always been in his blood. When he was young, Villani was taught to ride by his grandfather. In Carmine’s words, he “learned the tricks and bareback riding from him.” Villani’s equine passion was rekindled during his time in Texas, where he rode quarter-horses and thoroughbreds. He began to take part in endurance events in his early 40s and climbed to the summit of the FEI World Rankings in 2020. There are plenty of reasons the sport has him hooked. “It teaches discipline, morals and patience, and it takes a mental effort and sacrifice,” said Villani, who is now based in England and represents Endurance GB. “To participate in an endurance race is an achievement itself. It could be very technical. Strategy is also a very important aspect to know how to win. It is a beautiful sport.” He added: “Endurance is a mental and physical state. Like military — sacrifice and commitment. You should never give up. You need to be fit and have a fit horse. It is a very good way to maintain your health also.” Villani, who is also a certified public accountant and public notary, said that a strong understanding and bond between human and horse is essential for success. Competition tests stamina, skill and intellect, so it is imperative for him that there is an empathy at the heart of the alliance. Judgment of pace and the underlying track, as well as the horse’s moment-by-moment condition, are all integral in the pursuit of success in the sport. “You have to be the brain of the horse,” said Villani.