DUBAI: No one has an affinity for Amina Muaddi shoes quite like Rihanna. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The singer-turned-designer has an unparalleled collection of heels by the Jordanian-Romanian designer, which have become her go-to choice of footwear whether she is attending lavish red carpet events, fundraising galas, taking an off-duty stroll or stepping out to dinner with her reported beau A$AP Rocky.   The Fenty Beauty founder was spotted out on a chilly January night in New York City while heading to dinner at a SoHo restaurant with the rapper, born Rakim Mayers. For the occasion, the superstar put her best foot forward, wearing crystal-wrap Amina Muaddi sandals that she paired with a red Balenciaga puffer coat worn over an oversized jersey. She accessorized the look with a pair of leather ski gloves by Miu Miu, structural diamond earrings and a black baseball cap with an embroidered “R” from R13. One thing Rihanna and A$AP Rocky seem to have in common is their penchant for the part-Jordanian footwear designer’s creations. The artists have both collaborated with the designer in the recent past. In 2020, the Paris-based designer teamed up with the rapper’s creative agency AWGE on a four-piece collection of flared pumps and lace-up heels. The collection marked A$AP Rocky’s first foray into women’s footwear and was Muaddi’s first collaboration for her own brand, though she also released a limited-edition footwear capsule collection with Rihanna’s Fenty label that same year. The collaboration was honored as Collaborator of the Year at the 34th edition of the FN Achievement Awards. Following the sell-out success of the first collection, Barbados-born Rihanna enlisted Muaddi to design yet another collection for Fenty. According to an interview with British Vogue, Rihanna came by Muaddi’s shoes after her longtime stylist Jahleel Weaver introduced her to early prototypes. But then she bought a few pairs herself via her personal shopper. She’s such a nice person. She sent me some Fenty clothes when she launched her own label – I feel amazing when I’m wearing them. There’s that swagger, you feel like you are channeling Rihanna,” Muaddi stated. 