RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Deputy Defense Minister Prince Khalid bin Salman met with UN envoy to Yemen Hans Grundberg on Thursday to discuss the latest developments in Yemen.
He stressed the commitment of the Coalition led by Saudi Arabia to supporting the Yemeni government and people, and to drive efforts to reach a political resolution that achieves stability for the region.
“During my meeting with (Grundberg), we discussed the latest developments in Yemen and UN efforts to reach a political resolution,” Prince Khalid said, adding: “I stressed the determination of the coalition led by the Kingdom to achieve security and stability in Yemen.” During my meeting with @OSE_Yemen we discussed the latest developments in Yemen and UN efforts to reach a political resolution. I stressed the determination of the Coalition led by the Kingdom to achieve security and stability in Yemen. — Khalid bin Salman خالد بن سلمان (@kbsalsaud) January 20, 2022 Grundberg, said they discussed ways to end the war and ensure stability on the Arabian Peninsula, adding: “We agreed to work closely together and I look forward to continue cooperation.” 
The UN envoy also met with Yemeni Foreign Minister Ahmed bin Mubarak, Gulf Cooperation Council Secretary-General Nayef Al-Hajjraf, as well as other Saudi and Yemeni officials, his office said in a statement following his visit. UN Envoy Grundberg met with @kbsalsaud today. "I appreciate the opportunity to discuss ways to end the Yemen war and ensure stability on the Arabian Peninsula with Prince Khalid bin Salman. We agreed to work closely together and I look forward to continue cooperation". pic.twitter.com/JinPwQFxoI — @OSE_Yemen (@OSE_Yemen) January 20, 2022 Grundberg also held in-depth discussions with the five permanent members of the Security Council, the statement added.
Grundberg denounced Houthi attacks on Saudi Arabia and the UAE and “expressed his deep concern about the impact of this escalation on the prospects for peace in Yemen, and on the lives and livelihoods of civilians.”
He also “exchanged views on possible options for achieving an immediate de-escalation and paving the way for inclusive political talks.”