RIYADH: Saudi Arabia on Tuesday welcomed the UN-brokered Sudanese dialogue initiative, and said it supports everything that would unite and maintain security, stability and development in Sudan.
The comments were made following a weekly Cabinet meeting chaired remotely by King Salman from the capital, Riyadh.
The UN said on Monday it had started consultations to try and resolve the North African country’s escalating political crisis and transition to democracy.
During the session, the Council of Ministers was briefed on the meetings and talks that took place during the past week to develop relations and cooperation with a number of countries in various fields, to serve common interests and efforts to achieve international peace and security.
Acting Minister of Information Dr. Majid bin Abdullah Al-Qasabi said that the ministers reviewed a number of regional and international developments.
The Cabinet discussed the Kingdom’s keenness to achieve security and stability in Yemen, end the suffering of the Yemeni people, and the efforts made by the Coalition to Support Legitimacy in Yemen to ward off regional threats and secure maritime traffic and global trade from continuing violations by the Iranian-backed Houthi militia of international humanitarian law and maritime laws. During the meeting, the ministers approved the framework agreement for establishing the International Solar Energy Alliance, approved by a royal decree, and confirmed a memorandum of understanding regarding political consultations between the foreign ministries of Saudi Arabia and Norway.
The Cabinet also approved the Kingdom’s accession to the Global Ocean Alliance, and an MoU between the World Tourism Organization and the Saudi Ministry of Tourism to establish an international academy in cooperation with the UN international tourism body, and approved the academy’s organizational structure.
The Council of Ministers authorized the president of the Human Rights Commission to sign a draft MoU for cooperation in the field of combating human trafficking with the National Committee to Combat Trafficking in Persons in Qatar, and authorized the chairman of the King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology to sign a draft agreement with Ukraine in the field of science, technology and innovation.
It also approved a MoU between the General Directorate of Financial Intelligence in the Presidency of State Security and the State Financial Monitoring Service of Ukraine regarding cooperation in the exchange of information related to money laundering, terrorist financing and related crimes.