DUBAI: US film director Zack Snyder has offered fans a first glimpse at his hotly-anticipated Netflix sci-fi project “Rebel Moon,” starring French-Algerian actress Sofia Boutella. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The film, which is currently in its pre-production phase, will center on the Algiers-born actress, who is set to portray a young woman from a planet facing invasion by the armies of a tyrant named Belisarius. To save her home, Boutella sets off on a journey to neighboring planets in hopes of seeking out warriors that can help protect her colony. With production set to kick off soon, the director shared the first-ever “Rebel Moon” concept art on social media platform Vero, offering fans a new look at his next project and a production update.   The image depicts an army of multiple faceless characters holding weapons and walking together toward the camera. Fans predict these are the dire force of belligerents threatening Boutella’s character’s home. Snyder captioned the post: “Rebel Moon concept art... we are in full swing heading toward principal photography in a few months.” “Rebel Moon” is Snyder’s first project for the streaming giant. A post shared by Sofia Boutella (@sofisia7) According to Deadline, the “300” director had been meeting with female talent for months for the lead role. The report said that “Atomic Blonde” star Boutella wowed Snyder and he quickly decided to make her the lead. The publication added that after Snyder met with Boutella he was “blown away.” It will not be the first time Boutella has taken on the role of a sword-wielding extraterrestrial. The actress, who fled to Paris at the age of 10 with her family in 1992 during the Algerian civil war, is known for her breakout performance in the Oscar-nominated film “Star Trek: Beyond,” where she portrayed a fierce alien warrior named Jaylah. The actress just wrapped up filming “SAS: Rogue Heroes,” a six-part show from “Peaky Blinders” creator Steven Knight, and is set to begin shooting horror flick “Cuckoo” and sci-fi comedy “Alpha Gang,” which are both in the pre-production phase.