WASHINGTON: US President Joe Biden promised Qatar’s emir, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad, on Monday that he will soon designate Qatar as a major non-NATO ally, granting special status to a key friend in a turbulent region.
During a meeting in the Oval Office, Biden said he planned to notify the US Congress soon of the designation, which is granted by the US to close, non-NATO allies that have strategic working relationships with the US military.
“Qatar is a good friend and reliable and capable partner. And I’m notifying Congress that I will designate Qatar as a major non-NATO ally to reflect the importance of our relationship. I think it’s long overdue,” Biden told reporters with the emir sitting at his side.
Qatar is the 18th country to receive this designation, the last being Brazil in 2019. The designation provides international partners with benefits in defense trade and security cooperation, including eligibility for loan programs and priority delivery for certain military sales. This afternoon, I’m hosting Amir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani of Qatar for a bilateral meeting at the White House. I look forward to discussing a range of issues, including security and prosperity in the Middle East, global energy supplies, Afghanistan, and more. — President Biden (@POTUS) January 31, 2022 “We’re very happy and proud of this great relationship,” said Qatar’s ruling emir, Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. “We will continue working together to find ways and means to bring peace in our region.”
Qatar is the world’s largest supplier of liquefied natural gas and may divert supplies to Europe if the Ukraine conflict disrupts Russian gas deliveries to the continent.
Biden and Tamim also used Monday’s meeting to discuss Middle East security and the situation in Afghanistan, where humanitarian conditions have deteriorated in the aftermath of last year’s US military withdrawal and Taliban takeover. The leaders also discussed the status of US efforts to resurrect the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.
Biden administration officials heaped praise on Qatar for assisting the US military evacuation of thousands of US citizens and Afghans during the chaotic ending to the American war with the Taliban. Qatar continues to operate flights for those fleeing Afghanistan and has served as a way station for the US as it processes visas for thousands of people fleeing Taliban control. Qatar’s ambassador in Kabul even personally escorted convoys of evacuees to the airport to help ensure their safe passage. Had fruitful discussions with President Biden @POTUS in which we exchanged views on regional and international developments. The strategic partnership between our countries is bringing peace and stability to our region. — تميم بن حمد (@TamimBinHamad) January 31, 2022 Tamim was also meeting separately with Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and discussing arms sales and other military issues with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, an official told reporters.
Biden said he and the emir had a lot on their agenda on Monday including strengthening commercial and investment cooperation.
He hailed a new deal that Qatar Airways Group signed with Boeing that he said will create “tens of thousands of good-paying jobs.’
Boeing Co. secured a launch order from Qatar Airways for a new freighter version of its 777X passenger jet and a provisional order for 737 MAX jets in a Washington ceremony on Monday. Earlier today, I had a productive meeting at the Pentagon with @SecDef Lloyd J. Austin III which will further advance our strategic military partnership. The joint efforts of Qatar and the United States are fully oriented towards regional and international peace and stability. — تميم بن حمد (@TamimBinHamad) January 31, 2022 Biden said the UAE defeated a ballistic missile attack launched by the Houthis from Yemen on Sunday. “We’ve been in daily contact with UAE to address those threats,” he said.
He said he had directed the Pentagon’s Austin to do everything he could to communicate the support of the US for the UAE, Saudi Arabia and throughout the Gulf region.(With Reuters and AP)