DUBAI: Italian-Moroccan model Malika El-Maslouhi has turned 23 and while she did not throw herself an extravagant birthday bash to mark the occasion, El-Maslouhi looked effortlessly stylish nonetheless.   She took a moment to thank all of her followers and friends for the birthday wishes and for making her year so memorable — and posted a snowy image of herself surrounded by mountains to celebrate. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The newly-minted 23-year-old evoked cozy cool wearing a monochromatic look that consisted of a snuggly, black fur coat, cat-eye sunglasses, and a black scarf wrapped around her head. She paired the look with black trousers and cow-print shoes. A post shared by MALIKA (@malika.elmaslouhi) The photo was posted alongside a quirky and thoughtful message — “9 tagliatelle al ragu, 17 tiramisu and a lot of sunshine later… I finally turned one year younger.” She added: “Thank you, thank you, thank you to everyone that added a little piece to my year, I’m forever grateful to all the inspiring wonderful people I meet around the world. Love you!” Birthday wishes poured in for the part-Arab model on Instagram from fans and friends. “Happy birthday, beautiful,” commented Sudanese model Akon Changkou under the post.   Others took to their Instagram Stories to celebrate El-Maslouhi. Barcelona-based jewelry designer Adriana Manso of the La Manso label shared a screenshot of herself on FaceTime with the model and wrote “Happy birthday mi amor.” Italian model and actress Giulia Maenza posted a photo of her and El-Maslouhi and captioned it “Auguri sister,” which translates to “happy birthday, sister” in Italian. El-Maslouhi certainly has a lot to celebrate. A post shared by MALIKA (@malika.elmaslouhi) The model, who was born in Milan to an Italian mother and a Moroccan father, is one of the industry’s most in-demand stars. El-Maslouhi made her modeling debut when she was 18 and went on to captivate the industry. In addition to gracing the runways of storied fashion houses that most models can only dream of — such as Dior, Chanel, Valentino and Jacquemus, among others — the fashion star has also appeared in international campaigns for the likes of Off-White, Calvin Klein and Lanvin. On the editorial side, El-Maslouhi has quite a few magazine spreads under her belt, including Vogue Russia, British Vogue and Dazed Magazine.