Majid Al-Futtaim Communities, part of Majid Al-Futtaim Properties, is continuing to drive more sustainable and eco-friendly buildings. Following their ambition to develop thriving and sustainable communities, underpinned by placemaking environments derived from the principles of well-being, Al-Zahia, Sharjah’s premier lifestyle destination, recently announced the completion of their living wall, the first vertical garden across the emirate of Sharjah.
Presenting a lush work of art in the community spaces, the vertical garden at Al-Zahia is home to more than 15,000 plants of different species and spans across 160 square meters. As part of the highly anticipated community clubhouse, Majid Al-Futtaim Communities continues to lead the way in innovative and customer-centric destinations.   Earning global recognition due to their distinct economic and ecological advantages and rising environmental awareness, green walls have emerged as an essential component of sustainable urban development. Contributing to healthy communities, living walls can serve as a means of expression, creating a unique space for people to express themselves in various ways. Naturally infusing the air with oxygen, plants take in more CO2 than they release, removing traces of toxic chemicals and contributing toward cleaner, more oxygenated air. Absorbing approximately 41 percent more noise than traditional walls, the vertical gardens are not only beautiful and healthy; they equally reduce noise from external surroundings
and activities.
“At Majid Al-Futtaim our communities are about embedding local culture, creating more sustainable environments, capturing the beauty of nature while recognizing the potential for healthy living. Studies show that living in a green environment brings people together and that small-scale greenery has a positive effect on social cohesion in neighborhoods. Driven by our placemaking principles and commitment to break boundaries, Al-Zahia is underway in redefining Sharjah’s living experience,” said Hawazen Esber, chief executive, Majid Al-Futtaim Communities.
Al-Zahia offers homeowners contemporary and well-designed homes, surrounded by green spaces and a range of upscale amenities.
Located within walking distance of the recently opened City Center Al-Zahia, an innovative shopping and dining destination in Sharjah, the 1-million-square-meter residential community, is owned by Sharjah Holding — a joint venture between Majid Al-Futtaim Properties and Sharjah Asset Management.