DUBAI: Digital content house Majarra has partnered with French global platform Psychologies to launch a new mental health website in Arabic. The Nafseyati online platform will offer reliable, up-to-date, and scientific information produced by regional and international psychologists and specialists. Ammar Haykal, chief executive officer of Majarra, said: “We’re delighted to launch Nafseyati, keeping Majarra’s promise of providing the best Arabic content on the internet.” In a separate interview, he told Arab News that good-quality Arabic content on the internet was limited and noted that existing content consisted mainly of entertainment, religion, and news, meaning users were forced to turn to English-language sources for other topics. “This is a great partnership with a world-renowned provider to address the crucial topic of mental health and wellbeing,” Haykal added. Michael Garin, CEO of twofour54, which has been a long-term partner of Majarra, said: “The creation of original, useful Arabic content is central to twofour54’s mission. “Mental health is more critical than ever to society’s development and wellbeing, and we are pleased to see Majarra contribute their reliability, credibility, and know-how to this important topic.” During the coronavirus pandemic, Abu Dhabi started providing a mental health support service for individuals through its Istijaba hotline, set up in 2019 for emergencies. Majarra recently signed a memorandum of understanding with the Abu Dhabi Arabic Language Center, part of the Department of Culture and Tourism Abu Dhabi, to collaborate in multiple areas to promote the Arabic language online and offline. Dr. Jamal Mohammed Al-Kaabi, undersecretary of the Department of Health Abu Dhabi, said: “Abu Dhabi is determined to ensure the provision of an integrated health system that highlights the needs of community members and ensures their health and safety. “Mental health is a priority of ours and we are pleased to drive and support national initiatives that focus on spreading awareness around this topic,” he added. Nafseyati covers a range of topics including sexual health, nutrition, sport, and addiction in various forms. The content on the platform will be a combination of articles, videos, reports, in-depth research, abstracts, and highlights, in addition to audio articles and podcasts. Readers will also be encouraged to send in questions which will be answered by experts.