CAIRO: Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry met with the Omani Deputy Prime Minister for Cabinet Affairs Fahd bin Mahmoud Al-Said in Muscat on Sunday, to discuss bilateral relations and taking advantage of the developmental and economic boom in Egypt. Ambassador Ahmed Hafez, spokesperson for the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said that the meeting dealt with the economic reform Egypt is witnessing, as well as its development boom. It also dealt with efforts to advance bilateral economic and trade relations, in addition to the most prominent Arab and regional issues, stressing Egypt’s firm position in supporting the security and stability of the Gulf states and the Arab region. He added that Shoukry touched on the solidarity between the two countries, expressing his appreciation for what is provided to the Egyptian community in Oman, and the community’s role as a bridge of communication between Muscat and Cairo. On Saturday, Shoukry inaugurated the headquarters of the Arab Specialized Eye, Nose, Throat and Dental Hospital, one of the joint Egyptian-Omani investment projects, in Muscat in the presence of a number of members of the Egyptian-Omani Joint Business Council. He arrived in Muscat on Saturday to chair the Egyptian side participating in the fifteenth session of the joint committee between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Sultanate of Oman, held on Jan. 22-23. Shoukry, with his Omani counterpart Badr Al-Busaidi and the Omani Minister of Trade, Industry and Investment Promotion Qais Al-Yousef, called on the country’s private sector to strengthen and increase their presence in the Egyptian market, telling businesses to take advantage of the giant economic and development projects the Egyptian state is currently implementing, which provide many opportunities for investment in various fields. The Egyptian foreign ministry’s spokesman, Ahmed Hafez, said Shoukry praised the regularity of the business council’s meetings since its establishment in 2019, adding that this reflects the solid will of both sides to expand the fields and frameworks of cooperation between the two countries. Shoukry commended the effective role played by the council in supporting efforts to increase the volume of joint investments, and in exploring the available cooperation opportunities in the areas in which the two sides enjoy a comparative advantage. Meanwhile, the minister also expressed his hopes that Syria would be allowed to rejoin the Arab League. The country was suspended from the Arab organization over its failure to end the bloodshed caused by government crackdowns on pro-democracy demonstrations in 2011. “We hope that conditions will be available for Syria to return to the Arab domain and become an element supporting Arab national security,” Shoukry said. “We will continue to communicate with Arab countries to achieve this, and we look forward to the Syrian government taking measures that facilitate Syria’s return to the Arab League,” the minister continued.