NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe insists Bruno Guimaraes’ time at Newcastle United will come, after revealing why he left the record signing out of his Magpies’ starting XI. Newcastle recorded back-to-back wins in the Premier League midweek with a 3-1 win over Everton, the first time they had won two in a row since May 2021. And Howe's side did so mostly without $55.6 million Guimaraes, who was handed his debut but only in the closing stanza of the St. James’ Park encounter. The decision was met with surprise across Tyneside, with fans keen to see their exciting new Brazilian international in action. However, as the result attests, it turned out to be the right call. Howe said: “We won our last game 1-0 and the big thing for me is I have to reward players that play well. In my opinion, changing the team and leaving players that don't deserve to be left out is a dangerous thing to do. “Also, new players coming in have to earn their place. I was really pleased with the performance at Leeds. I felt Sean Longstaff was very unfortunate not to start the game for what he gave in that match. I understand everyone is excited to see the new signings and I'm the same, I'm no different, I want to give them their opportunity but I've always got to do what's right for the team. I felt this was the right team for the game. Who knows what that looks like for Aston Villa. “Bruno has a massive part to play. You can see from his cameo that he is full of confidence and is going to be a top player for us. But even this period of adjustment for Bruno is a good thing where he can watch and learn. There is so much you have to pick up when you come to a new team. He's going to be an outstanding talent for us.” While Guimaraes may get his opportunity to shine in front of another sell-out home crowd on Sunday, one player who will definitely miss out is Matt Targett. As per Premier League rules, players on loan cannot play against their parent club and with Aston Villa in town it means, for one weekend at least, that the left-back must sit this one out. However, that is likely to hand an opportunity to another new boy in Dan Burn. Whoever starts, Howe is delighted with the mix of players he has brought in since arriving. “One of the biggest things for me when we recruited players in the January window was the attitude and commitment they were going to bring to the team. We have got a really good group of players here and what we didn't want to do was disrupt that harmony and mindset, we wanted to enhance it with people that can lead, talk and have been in this position before potentially and have experience of the league. “It's quite a mix to find those players but all the guys that have come in have enhanced the mood so far.” Since the buyout of United by Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, PCP Capital Partners, and RB Sports and Media, positivity has reigned supreme. Newcastle has felt like a club and a city reborn, one of hope, progress and joy. That was underlined on Tuesday as the United fans showed their love and support for the players with yet another remarkable flag display at the famous Gallowgate and Leazes ends of St James’ Park. It was something definitely felt by the players - Kieran Trippier said he had not experienced an atmosphere like it as a player - and by Howe. “Unity is everything at a football club from top to bottom. You need that unity. We all have the same aim. From the players to the staff, to the owners and supporters, we all want to see Newcastle United win. “If we all have the same aim, and we're unified, it's a massive, massive thing ticked then we just have to produce the right coaching sessions and tactical plan and the players have to execute it. It sounds simple to achieve but it's actually very difficult to achieve. “I have felt a unified club since I came in and I'm going to work very, very hard to keep that.”