JEDDAH: Saudi Al-Wasael Creative Marketing launched its platform Saudia Workshop in December as a creative outlet for those interested in the performing and visual arts in the Kingdom.
Saudia Workshop emerged from a Saudi-Egyptian partnership to encourage the country’s arts and culture scene.
Ahmad and Labeb Kabli founded Saudia Workshop as a collaboration between Al-Wasael Creative Marketing and their Egyptian counterparts Egycast and Dahab Academy, owned by Mohammed Abo El-Dahab.
The collaboration aims at fostering the Kingdom’s growing arts and culture sector.
Ahmad Kabli told Arab News: “Our platform aims to provide talents inside Saudi Arabia with the opportunity to express themselves through our workshops and find their footing in (the) arts as a career.” Our platform aims to provide talents inside Saudi Arabia with the opportunity to express themselves through our workshops and find their footing in (the) arts as a career. Ahmad and Labeb Kabli The platform offers a variety of workshops on the performing arts, with every one approved by the Kingdom’s Ministry of Culture.
The workshops, which will be conducted by prominent actors, directors, and leading figures from the arts, include cinematography, acting, scenario writing, film directing, television, and radio presenting.
The workshops currently being provided include an acting workshop by Egyptian movie star Ahmad Zaher, scenarist and film director and writer Medhat El-Adl, broadcasting with TV personality and presenter Enas Gohar, acting with theater expert and actor Shadi El-Dali, and a film directing workshop with Adel Adeeb.
“The gap in performing arts signaled that arts and culture required cultivation. For that, Saudia Workshop was born, marking a new era of discovering local talents and exporting them to the world,” said Kabli.
The workshops are open to people aged 18 and above in Jeddah.
Saudi Arabia has been promoting its arts and cultural scene for several years.
The King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (Ithra) in Dhahran is offering courses for film and the performing arts. It has offered online courses during the pandemic.
Kabli said that Saudia Workshop would soon expand its outreach to serve areas such as Riyadh and the Eastern Province.
“We are offering top talents to have a chance of getting nominated to participate in movies, series, and programs via our collaboration with production houses and movie superstars.”