DUBAI: New York Fashion Week is in full swing and the Canadian-Moroccan singer and songwriter Faouzia has been spotted all over the city in show-stopping styles. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 21-year-old music sensation has attended plenty of shows, including US luxury fashion house Carolina Herrera’s fall 2022 ready-to-wear showcase on Monday where she was sat front row. For the occasion, Faouzia turned heads in a beige knee-length coat which she paired with crocodile-skin boots. She topped off her look with large dangling earrings along with a matching necklace and a bracelet. She then changed into a full Versace look as she celebrated Valentine’s Day later that evening.   The Casablanca-born singer also attended Tory Burch and Christian Cowan’s shows. For Cowan’s show, Faouzia championed Uncuffed Leather’s peplum corset, a skirt from M.M.LaFleur, and a tiger-print blazer by Cowan. Among the multiple looks she pulled off, Faouzia wore a monogram Marc Jacobs outfit as she headed to fittings in the city. With the help of her stylist, V. Smith., she is one of the most interesting new faces on the fashion circuit to watch in 2022. On Instagram, she consistently offers her 1.8 million fans a closer look at her inventive outfits.   But the crooner’s love of fashion goes beyond social media. In November, Faouzia attended Chanel’s Cruise 2022 show in Dubai and to mark her first front-row experience, wore a Chanel monogrammed velvet look before she hit the stage with US singer John Legend wearing the Parisian house’s iconic tweed suit. NYFW is one of the most important calendar events on the fashion circuit for celebrities, models, and influencers around the world. Among the international stars – such as actresses Katie Holmes, Zazie Beetz, and Amanda Seyfried – who attended the city’s fashion week were a number of Arab influencers. Saudi blogger Model Roz, Palestinian influencer Maria Alia, and French-Algerian blogger Lena Mahfouf, all displayed striking street-style looks over the past week. Alia sat front row at New York-based label Altuzarra’s show, which part-Palestinian model Gigi Hadid walked for on Monday. Model Roz, who was born in Jubail and raised in Riyadh, attended the Private Policy and Christian Cowan’s fashion show, while Mahfouf, who boasts 3.5 million Instagram followers, went to Tory Burch.