NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has revealed Newcastle United’s Saudi-based owners have “huge ambitions” for the Magpies in the long term. But Howe understands, as do majority shareholders the Public Investment Fund, that those lofty future plans are on hold until immediate concerns about Premier League safety are addressed. The Magpies take on Everton on Tuesday still nestled in the midst of a Premier League relegation battle. Three points against the Toffees, now managed by Frank Lampard, would take them out of the top flight bottom three. It is a battle that must be won before the spoils of war can even be considered. “Of course, there are huge ambitions at this football club,” said head coach Howe. “And I am sure, in time, they will become reality. Everything that is in the eyes and the minds of the people running the club will become reality,” he said. “For me, it is about getting the best out of the team and the here and now, the present. I need to stay in that mindset, I cannot let myself drift away from that. My work is day-to-day, minute-to-minute to make sure the players are in the best position to win a game.” Despite winning just twice in 11 games under Howe, United are unbeaten in the Premier League in their last three matches — a run which, due to COVID-19 call-offs, stretches back to Dec. 19 and the loss to Manchester City. After the drama of the transfer window, in which United added five new players to their ranks, all attention now turns back to on-field action — something that Howe is looking forward to. “In some ways I am (happy to see the end of the window), because I like to coach. And I like to think I can get the best out of the resources I am given,” said Howe. “We fully back (the squad) to get the job done. What I do think is that the spirit in the camp has been very high. There is a confidence that we can achieve our aims.” The break without a game gave United the chance to travel to Saudi Arabia, home of 80 percent shareholders PIF, for a warm weather training camp. Magpies’ players were pictured spending time with locals and riding dune buggies in the desert as they sampled Middle Eastern culture first-hand. Reflecting on the trip, Howe talked up the positives of his team getting time in the Saudi sun, but admits that due to the pressure of the transfer window, he had little time to relax. “Most of my time was spent on the training ground or in my hotel with the laptop, trying to improve the squad,” he said.