LONDON: Friends and family have offered their heartfelt tributes to a woman murdered in a shocking knife attack in central London. Yasmin Chkaifi, 44, was killed by Leon McCaskie in Maida Vale, west London, on Jan. 24, weeks after a warrant was issued for his arrest. Her husband, Joseph Salmon told the BBC that his wife was “smart, clever and witty.” Another family member said she had a “big, caring heart,” adding that she would still be alive if police had done more to enforce McCaskie’s warrant. McCaskie was also killed in the attack when a passing driver rammed him in an attempt to protect Chkaifi. The driver was released without charges. Police are investigating the case after it emerged that McCaskie should have been held in jail without bail for failing to show up to court after breaking a stalking protection order breach. Remembering his wife, Salmon said: “I'm grateful for the chance to talk to her, marry her, be happy with her, and fall in love with her.” He added that both he and his family were “at a loss” and “heartbroken.” “I just think domestic abuse is a very bad problem and, if there’s no education about it from very young, if things aren’t sorted, if men can’t keep their hands to themselves, I don’t know what we’re going to do,” he said. Azhar Elfaddi, Chkaifi’s cousin and best friend, said: “She was probably the smartest and wisest woman I knew. She was just a simple, loving, amazing woman. I’ve never seen anyone compare to her, her parenting, as a person, her heart. “She was always forgiving, she never really liked to speak bad about people.” Another cousin, Inass Elfaddi, said it was “sad that no one did anything about it” and she had many questions for the police. She said: “It could have easily been prevented. “I think I would ask why her case wasn’t a priority, why (McCaskie’s) warrant wasn’t a priority, why his criminal record wasn’t enough for him to be searched for, as you did have a warrant? “Obviously they didn’t see him as a threat.” The Metropolitan Police told the BBC it was unable to comment on the case because it has been referred to the Independent Office for Police Conduct for review.