JEDDAH: A closing birdie gave Harold Varner III a one-shot lead heading into the final day of the 2022 Public Investment Fund Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers. The American set himself up with an eagle opportunity after a near-perfect approach on the 18th hole at Royal Greens Golf and Country Club. His 15-footer rolled by before he tapped home for a third-round 68 (-12 total) and a single shot 54-hole advantage over Spain’s Adri Arnaus. The pair will close out tomorrow’s Sunday groups at the $5 million flagship Asian Tour event alongside England’s Tommy Fleetwood (-10). Australian pair Cameron Smith (-8) and Wade Ormsby (-7) lead the chasing pack, alongside Saudi International champion Dustin Johnson and Japan’s Ryosuke Kinoshita, both also on 7-under-par. “I’m just hanging in there,” said Varner III. “I did a good job of slowing down and doing my job. I love competing. I mean, the greatest thing in life is competing and just working at it.” The third day of the event was yet another wind-battered affair, with the blustery conditions expected to continue throughout Sunday’s final round. Asked about the Red Sea breeze, Varner III said: “I enjoy the challenge. I think it’s awesome. That’s what it's all about. Life’s hard; this is easy!” The highlight of the Ohio native’s round was an eagle three on the par-5 fourth hole. “I hit a really good drive and you’re just trying to make birdie — and I lucked up and hit the pin,” he added. “I don't think it was going too fast, but I’ll take them wherever they come!” Spain’s Arnaus followed rounds of 64 and 66 with a 1-under-par 69, leaving him one-off his playing partner heading into the final round. Arnaus, a Golf Saudi ambassador, said: “I think that day by day, we get the hang of how the course is playing. It was the same wind as yesterday, as far as velocity and direction, so we already know what to do here and there. It’s just a matter of sticking to the game plan and being in the right position. “I think it’s going to be very important for me to come out tomorrow rested and fresh because it takes a lot out of us being out there. So, I’ll just come out there calm, sticking to my game plan but at the same time being aggressive on the back nine, because there are a few opportunities to take advantage of. And on the holes that are a little bit tougher, I’ll just try to play smart.” Kinoshita is the highest-placed Asian Tour player in the standings. “I had chances on the back nine to finish higher but not did take them,” said Kinoshita. “I made a couple of mistakes, so I feel I missed an opportunity to get myself closer to the leaders. I definitely still have a chance tomorrow, but it’s a leader board filled with world-class players, so it will be very difficult.” The round of the day belonged to Paul Casey, who found seven birdies en route to a 6-under-par 64 — propelling him up the scoreboard into a share of 14th on 4-under. “There’s momentum,” said the Englishman, whose round turned on a bogey-saving putt. “There are moments when a round can turn, a fork in the road. Today, that was the difference for me.”