DUBAI: US-Somali model Halima Aden has landed herself a new partnership with modest wear giant Modanisa. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The catwalk star revealed this week on social media that she and the Turkey-based platform released a new hijab and shawl collection titled “Halima X Modanisa.” The new launch offers a selection of headscarves in different nude shades and textures. “The wait is over,” Aden told her 1.4 million followers on Instagram. “The New Halima x Modanisa Hijab Collection…celebrates the beauty of all, inspiring women to create new stories with their own inimitable style.”  A post shared by Halima (@halima) In a released statement on Modanisa’s website, the 24-year-old model said: “I want to celebrate women around the world through fashion and encourage them to be pace-setters and change-makers.” “Beauty is power and it comes in so many forms. We, as women, need to be one another’s biggest cheerleaders,” she added. The scarves, turbans and shawls come in white, beige, brown, off-white and black.  A post shared by Halima (@halima) Aden, who appeared on numerous magazine covers and in print campaigns, has a longstanding working relationship with Modanisa. The fashion e-tailer is the world’s largest platform to offer modest clothing options for veiled women, making the partnership one that Aden does not have to compromise her religious beliefs for — the primary reason she says she walked away from fashion in 2020. In September, she was revealed as Modanisa’s first brand ambassador.  A post shared by Halima (@halima) “I’m so excited to be working with Modanisa. They have been an ever-present in my career: my first modest fashion catwalk, my first collection, and now my first global fashion role. They share my faith and values, and fully respect my choices as a Muslim woman. I’m coming home,” Aden previously said in a press release about her new position with the company. The former UNICEF ambassador, who grew up in a Kenyan refugee camp before moving to Minnesota, first made headlines after wearing a Modanisa burkini during the swimsuit portion of the Miss Minnesota USA pageant in 2016. In addition to fronting campaigns and walking runways for Modanisa’s Modest Fashion Weeks in London, Istanbul and Dubai, Aden has previously produced a collection of headscarves for the e-tailer, which instantly sold out.