DUBAI: Saudi-Lebanese style star Alanoud Badr this week walked the runway for Italian label Elisabetta Franchi’s fashion show at Milan Fashion Week. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Dubai-based influencer on Friday showed off a hot-red tulle dress that fitted at the waist. The ensemble featured a heart-shaped neckline and was decorated with sparkly studs.   Badr, known as Fozaza on Instagram, shared special moments from the rehearsals with her 1.2 million followers. “I still can’t believe I walked the runway of Elisabetta Franchi for Milan Fashion week,” she said, captioning a short video that showed behind-the-scenes clips from rehearsals. “What an insane experience. (I am) super grateful and thankful to the people behind such an amazing production. Love you loads.” A post shared by Alanoud Badr - العنود بدر (@fozaza) The social media star was also joined by Lebanese presenter Annabella Hilal, Iraqi influencer Deema Al-Asadi and Dubai-based fashion blogger Zeynab El-Helw.   Hilal, who opened the show, wore a floor-length green dress with a thigh-high slit and subtle pleating. “It was an honor to open the Elisabetta Franchi show,” she wrote on Instagram.  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) Meanwhile, Al-Asadi wore a sequined black dress with a plunging neckline and a cropped blazer. As soon as she finished her show, she took to Instagram to share the experience with her 1 million followers. “Remember I told you guys I am here for something so exciting? So, your girl walked for Elisabetta Franchi today,” she wrote, sharing clips of the catwalk. A post shared by Zeynab El-helw زينب الحلوه (@zeynabelhelw) El-Helw championed a full-length sequined pink ensemble with a beaded fringe dangling from the waist. Among the guests that sat front row to support the Arab stars were Lebanese presenter Diala Makki and Tunisian model and actress Rym Saidi Breidy. A post shared by @lolibahiaa Arab models have been taking Milan Fashion Week by storm. French-Algerian catwalk star Loli Bahia, British-Moroccan model Nora Attal and sisters Gigi and Bella Hadid have been making headlines with their eye-catching looks on the runways for renowned labels like Tod’s, Moschino, Prada, Max Mara, Fendi, and more.