RIYADH: The Embassy of India organized the Ambassador Golf Tournament 2022 to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s independence, which also marks the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the bilateral relations between India and Saudi Arabia. India gained independence from British rule on Aug. 15, 1947. India and Saudi Arabia enjoy cordial and friendly relations reflecting the centuries-old economic and socio-cultural ties, but diplomatic relations were officially established that year. More than 65 players, including ambassadors, members of the diplomatic corps and professionals from various nationalities, participated in the golf tournament, which was played over 18 holes at the picturesque Dirab Golf and Country Club, Riyadh. Women and children also participated. Indian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Dr. Ausaf Sayeed spoke at the event, highlighting the bilateral cooperation between India and the Kingdom in the fields of sports and culture. After he had awarded prizes to the winners, there was a luncheon reception. The tournament, which has been organized regularly by the Indian Embassy to mark India’s Republic Day, coincides with the rising popularity of the sport in the Kingdom. With continued investment in sports in line with Saudi Vision 2030, the Kingdom is uniting expert stakeholders across the country to enhance its position on the world stage in various sports. Sport provides the most comprehensive opportunity to showcase Saudi Arabia’s national endeavor and diversify the lifestyle of its people. The Saudi Open is one of the events that Golf Saudi holds annually to raise awareness of the game in the Kingdom and to develop home-grown talent. By working with other sports federations and the Ministry of Sport, Golf Saudi, which is the commercial development arm of the Saudi Golf Federation, is looking to underline the wider benefit of sports participation. Combined with grassroots training and education programs that introduce people to the game at the earliest opportunity, Golf Saudi is committed to delivering a dynamic national development program that transforms the golfing landscape.