Celebrations were held at the Saudi pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai on Feb. 22 to mark the Kingdom’s first Founding Day, which commemorated the establishment of the first Saudi state in 1727 at its capital of Diriyah.
Saudi performers, musicians and dancers showcased a range of cultural presentations to demonstrate the Kingdom’s rich and diverse heritage. The program included the Ardeh, and the projection of a video onto the facade of the pavilion Nuzul’s video highlighted aspects of culture that were perpetuated in Diriyah during the 18th century. Mudbrick building, date preservation, traditional medicine, historical schooling and the crafting of the first Saudi flag featured in the footage.
Tour guides sent from Diriyah, also known as the Jewel of the Kingdom, engaged in cultural activities, educating people around the world about the founding of the country.
The Diriyah Gate Development Authority, responsible for Diriyah’s historic legacy, contributed to the troupe of tour guides at the Saudi pavilion.
Three guides, Manal Hathrah, Rahaf Al-Harbi and Maha Al-Fagir, each imparted their knowledge and understanding of the first Saudi state’s founding to the diverse international audience.
The trio highlighted that Diriyah has stood as a definitive starting point for the Saudi state, being a political, cultural and social capital, and a cradle of the civilization led by the early imams of the Al-Saud family.
DGDA is working to preserve Diriyah and its historical heritage. These efforts also aim to transform Diriyah into a leading global destination, alongside DGDA’s other development projects that work to preserve and modernize many historic sites, elevate its people’s quality of life and fulfill the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 goals.
Founding Day complements the Saudi National Day, which celebrates the unification of Saudi Arabia in 1932 every Sept. 23, by recognizing the beginning of the Saudi state with a new event that commemorates the Kingdom’s historical roots.
The Saudi pavilion has so far welcomed more than 3 million visitors from all corners of the globe and will be at the expo until the event closes at the end of March.