ABU DHABI: Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, deputy prime minister of the UAE and minister of presidential affairs, has launched e&, a new brand identity for the Etisalat Group. The new identity marks Etisalat’s transformation into a global technology and investment conglomerate. “The transformation of e& from a telecom company founded more than four decades ago in the UAE into a global influence in digitalization highlights its role in upholding the UAE’s sustainable economic development and diversification plans,” Sheikh Mansour said. He added: “We commend e& for being the national champion that steers its global digitalization leadership through pioneering advanced technologies, advancing ICT infrastructures, and fueling geographic expansions while unlocking value.” The launch event was attended by Mohammed bin Abdullah Al-Gergawi, minister of cabinet affairs; Mohammed bin Hadi Al-Hussaini, minister for financial affairs; and Jassem Mohammed Bu Ataba Al-Zaabi, chairman of e&. “This is a milestone in the history of the group, and a new era where we reaffirm our commitment to deliver outstanding customer experiences and maximize value for our shareholders,” said Al-Zaabi. He added: “To ensure that the next chapter of our journey is a success, we made the decision to realign our business model so that we can stay agile and fit for the future. We are now ready to be the future-focused nexus that will drive more positive change for our customers and shareholders through our robust expertise.” The announcement is accompanied by a new strategy and business model that aims to enhance customer experiences across all segments and accelerate growth across the group’s four brands: Telecom, e& life, e& enterprise and e& capital. Etisalat’s telecom segment will maintain its previous brand identity and expand into new markets. Meanwhile, e& life’s focus is to deliver next-generation technologies and digital experiences across the entertainment, retail and financial sectors, while e& enterprise will drive digital transformation for governments, corporates and enterprises. Finally, e& capital will be responsible for new acquisitions and mergers while fulfilling its vision of investing in innovative ideas. “The digitalization acceleration during the pandemic offered a new realm of opportunities for us to serve our customers better as they seek more seamless and enhanced digital experiences,” said Hatem Dowidar, group CEO of e&. He added: “We are keen to contribute to a knowledge-based economy that will digitally empower societies as we move forward with our mission to pioneer next-generation technologies, build breakthrough partnerships and create a new world powered by all of us.”