DUBAI:  Moroccan-Egyptian model Imaan Hammam has a starring role in Victoria Beckham’s campaign for her collaboration with sportswear giant Reebok. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Beckham, the former Spice Girl turned fashion designer, took to Instagram to launch her latest capsule collection. The campaign video and images were shot by Italian-American fashion photographer Mario Sorrenti. Hammam can be seen sporting multiple looks from the new capsule, all with an active and sophisticated feel.   It is the sixth capsule collection Beckham has produced for the UK-based sportswear brand, following their debut collection in 2018 and a long-term partnership. The capsule collection was inspired by Beckham’s travels to the US, and combines functional and high-performance sportswear with elevated styles and colors for the summer season. Beckham said in a press statement: “At the beginning of the design process I always start with one key piece that references a particular sport. Last season was all about the tennis dress whereas this drop sees the introduction of a wide-leg basketball warm-up trouser inspired by my travels to the US.” She added: “My vintage wardrobe also plays a big part in the look and feel of each capsule, the Reebok M65 parka nods to one of my favorite jackets — we’ve cropped it, cut it to the waist and fitted it with wide pockets so it can be worn all day long.” A post shared by Victoria Beckham (@victoriabeckham) The pieces allow for functional body movement with a subtle feminine sophistication, as Hammam effortlessly shows in the campaign video. The collection includes essential activewear, from leggings and hoodies to sneakers. Hammam is one of the most in-demand models in the industry. Born in the Netherlands to an Egyptian father and Moroccan mother, the 25-year-old was scouted in Amsterdam’s Central Station before making her catwalk debut in 2013 walking for Jean Paul Gaultier’s couture show. Since then, she has appeared on the catwalk for major fashion houses, such as Fendi, Prada and Moschino, and in international campaigns for Versace, DKNY, Celine and Tiffany & Co. Hammam also has been featured in leading fashion publications, such as Vogue and V magazine.