NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has revealed that Newcastle United are sweating on the fitness of the talismanic January-signing Kieran Trippier. The England international full-back limped out of Tuesday night’s 3-1 win over Everton with a calf problem. And while Howe has revealed it is not a “long-term” issue, fan-favorite Trippier remains a doubt for the visit of Steven Gerrard’s Aston Villa to St. James’ Park. Howe said: “We don’t think it is a long-term injury, but we will have to make a late call on him for this game. “He has been so important for us in recent games. I thought he was outstanding against Everton, highlighted by his free-kick. “I thought his all-around game was excellent, and it would be a big blow to lose him. But we will have to wait and see.” Trippier, a $16.2 million purchase from La Liga champions Atletico Madrid, has been a revelation since arriving on Tyneside and put in his best show in black and white to date against the Toffees, which included the Magpies’ late match-winning free-kick. “He instantly caught the lads’ respect straightaway just by his demeanor, how he approached his training and his leadership skills,” said Howe. “He was very vocal early on, speaking to the group, and then his performances have spoken for themselves. He is determined to be a success at everything he does. He has a winner’s mentality. “He has been a key, key person for us in our uplift in fortunes. I can’t speak highly enough of him so far.” Apart from Trippier, Howe has no fresh injury concerns ahead of Sunday and could even welcome back Paul Dummett from injury if the defender passes a late fitness test. It looks to be a straight choice between Dummett, new boy Dan Burn and Javier Manquillo to fill in for the ineligible Matt Targett, who cannot play against his parent club, as part of his loan agreement. “Dummett is getting closer to a return,” said Howe. “Fede Fernandez is closer but is still yet to train with the group. Matt Ritchie and Callum Wilson are out, but nothing else to discuss, hopefully.” On giving Burn his debut, Howe added: “He is an option for us. It is great that I have options there. Manquillo has done really well at left-back. He came on at Leeds and made a big impact. He has the versatility to play both sides. We will have to make a late check on Dummett, to see where he is physically.” Another player champing at the bit to be handed his first start is club-record signing Bruno Guimaraes. The Brazil international was allowed a late cameo in the Everton win and showed fans just why United shelled out so much to sign him from Lyon. His pressing, sharp passing and clever movement wowed the Newcastle faithful on Tuesday, and Howe has hinted he may play a bigger role this weekend. Howe said: “He is ready to play, fit to play. Certainly he has shown the technical qualities we love about him in training already. “It is a case of managing the group and making the right selections as every game is different,” he added. “The midfield balance against Everton was very good with Joelinton, Jonjo Shelvy and Joe Willock. The three did well. “Bruno will play a lot of games for this football club, I have no doubt about that, but we do have competition for places.”