DUBAI: Iraqi-US entrepreneur Huda Kattan is introducing a new wellness brand by Huda Beauty Angels, which falls under HB Investments, Kattan’s venture capital firm. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Shortly after investing in feminine care label Ketish, founded by Eman Abbas in August, HB Investments has announced that it is launching a new supplements brand, Humantra. Humantra, founded by Date Catudal, is the second brand under the HB Investment fund and incubator. Much like the Ketish founder, Catudal is also a cancer survivor with an inspirational story to share. The brand was inspired by the entrepreneur’s own health experience. “We’re thrilled to announce our partnership with HB Investments,” wrote the brand in a statement. “Backed by the amazing Kattan family who share our passion for wellness, they are supporting us on our mission to make authentic health education and clean supplements more accessible to everyone.” Humantra aims to help people on their wellness journey by giving them the right supplements and helping them take control of their own health. The brand’s long-term mission is to provide a product line that will clarify the supplement purchasing experience and tackle four crucial pillars of health: hydration, gut health, brain health and sleep. The first supplement to be released is one Humantra considers to be the most imperative, the “Hydration Hack,” a plant-based, sugar-free electrolyte and antioxidant drink mix made up of 100 percent natural ingredients and six vital electrolytes. The product will be available in two refreshing flavors: “Himalayan Lime” and “Berry Pomegranate.”   According to the brand, it hydrates four times more successfully than water alone, is completely clean and will not disturb or disrupt the gut. HB investments are a brand-building powerhouse created by Huda and her sisters Mona and Alya Kattan. The family have multiple successful brands underneath their belt, including cosmetics label Huda Beauty, fragrance line Kayali and skincare brand Wishful. Last year, Huda Beauty Angels introduced its first investment for Ketish, a feminine care label spearheaded by Abbass, a former Huda Beauty product developer. Specializing in female wellness, Ketish launched in August of 2021 with an array of targeted body care products.