RIYADH: The commander of the joint forces concluded a visit to units stationed on the southern border of Saudi Arabia on Tuesday, Saudi Press Agency reported. In addition to meeting the units from the Saudi armed forces and other forces that are part of the Coalition to Restore Legitimacy in Yemen, Gen. Mutlaq bin Salem Al-Azima also met with leaders of Yemeni army combat units participating in the operation to liberate Yemen. “The Coalition to Restore Legitimacy in Yemen aims to support the truth and remove the injustice and suffering of the Yemeni people, at the invitation of their internationally recognized and legitimate government, after millions of them sought refuge in Saudi Arabia or sailed to Djibouti, Somalia and elsewhere to escape the tyranny and lethality of the Houthi militia,” Al-Azima said. The coalition also aims to protect countries neighboring Yemen and freedom of maritime navigation and global trade in international sea lanes, in addition to maintaining regional and international security, he added. He explained that the coalition decided on September 1, 2020, to provide all opportunities for peace, build confidence, and improve the atmosphere by stopping air strikes on all cities and camps for a period of eight months, regardless of provocations and infringements. Al-Azima said this was followed by Saudi Arabia’s initiative to bring peace to Yemen and reach a comprehensive political solution. He added that the coalition then decided to continue exercising restraint for another eight months to provide a conducive atmosphere and create opportunities despite the persistence and arrogance with which this the Saudi peace initiative was met, and the continuation and escalation of Houthi attacks. The commander detailed some Houthi violations of international humanitarian law and its customary rules during the sixteen months when attacks were not responded to as follows: 1. The Houthis launched 109 ballistic missiles targeting civilians and civilian objects.
2. The militia launched 414 booby-trapped drones on civilians and civilian objects.
3. The Houthis launched 52 booby-trapped boats and laid 110 naval mines indiscriminately in the southern Red Sea and Bab Al-Mandab Strait.
4. They targeted civilian airports including Abha International Airport, Najran Airport and King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Airport in Jazan. They also targeted desalination plants, Saudi Aramco tanks, vital civilian facilities in the cities of Riyadh and Dammam, and Saudi border cities.