CAIRO: Egypt has launched an international wheat tender to import wheat from April 13 to 26, just 48 hours after canceling a tender that received only a single offer. The Egyptian Supply Commodities Authority set a Feb. 28 deadline for offers for the new tender. It canceled an international wheat tender on Thursday after receiving a single offer to import 60,000 tons of French wheat. A tender must receive more than one offer to become valid. The country is working on a plan to import wheat from areas outside Russia and Ukraine following the outbreak of war, said Nader Saad, a government spokesman, adding that Egypt has a 5 million ton strategic stockpile of wheat. Saad said that Egypt has been preparing wheat imports since November, before the start of the planting season. The country’s existing stockpile will supply the country with wheat for nine months, he added. “Egypt is working on a plan to import wheat from other sources instead of Russia and Ukraine, as Egypt has 14 countries approved for the supply of wheat, some of which are outside Europe,” Saad said. Data from the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics in Egypt showed that Egypt imported 6.1 million tons of wheat during 2021, excluding December. Russia and Ukraine are the two largest wheat exporters to Egypt. Last year, Russia sent 4.2 million tons of wheat, worth $1.2 billion, representing 69.4 percent of total Egyptian wheat imports. Ukraine sent 651,400 tons, worth $649.4 million, and accounting for 10.7 percent of total imports, followed by Romania with 387,200 tons and Australia with 190,200 tons. Egypt on Sunday called for an emergency Arab League meeting at delegate level to discuss developments in Ukraine, according to a statement from the Egyptian foreign ministry. Arab states have taken diverging stances on the Russian invasion, with Syria supporting it, Lebanon condemning it, the United Arab Emirates declining to take sides and Egypt expressing broad concern and hopes for a quick resolution.