RIYADH: Thousands of people showed up in their best cultural clothes to celebrate Saudi Arabia’s first Founding Day. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Lama Al Akeel, a Saudi influencer, wore a red traditional dress with golden floral decoration with golden crown and transparent embroidered veil.  The dress is a prominently from the Hijaz region ( the western region of the Kingdom), — more specifically from the city of Madinah. A post shared by Lama Alakeel لما العقيل (@lama.alakeel) Another Saudi influencer, Bella Model, and her husband, Faris, also dressed up as a traditional Hijazi couple. Faris wore an orange headband called Ummah, whereas Bella wore a white traditional dress called Alzaboon with flower-like embroidery with a matching headpiece along with multilayered pearl necklaces and some gold adornments. A post shared by Mama Bella (@_bella_model_) Najla Al-Wadaani, also an influencer, created a look inspired from 1727 and got a lot of positive feedback from the viewers for making it look authentic. She wore a traditional Najdi style dress with colorful sadu embroidery on the sleeves, along with a veil, and large pieces of jewelery.  = A post shared by نجلاء الودعاني Najla Alwadaani (@njeel_d) Noufnouva, a fashion model, wore a pretty western style dress with lots of intricate details, and complimenting hat. A post shared by Nova (@noufnouva) Eithar, a personal blogger, wore a traditional, white two-piece garment with golden embroidery. Her look was inspired by how wealthy women usually dressed themselves in the past. A post shared by Eithar (@the.eith) Shaima Waleed, a makeup artist, wore a green dress decorated with beautiful golden threads with complimenting jewelery. Her father also sported a traditional Saudi dress with an authentic golden dagger. A post shared by Trendy Fashion ترندي فاشن (@the_trendyfashion) Kenda Nabeel, a fashion designer, said that the Founding Day cultural dresses made grandmothers teary-eyed as they reminisced the good, old days. “Seeing how excited the people were on this Founding Day has been such a breath of fresh air. It helped people reconnect with their heritage in a way I've never seen,” she said. Nabeel added: The Saudi citizens have proved themselves to be extremely creative not only with their clothing but the way they represented themselves in public and on social media platforms. I wholeheartedly believe that the Founding Day would be the day many people look forward to where future generations will learn about their own history time and time again.”