DUBAI: The 53rd annual NAACP Image Awards took place in Los Angeles over the weekend, and attendees made sure to put on their glittering best for the ceremony. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle For the star-studded occasion, actress Kerry Washington stepped out wearing a peach off-the-shoulder gown from Lebanese couturier Zuhair Murad that featured a train and a draped bodice. She accessorized the look with a metallic pink clutch and a chunky DeBeers diamond necklace that sparkled when she moved. A post shared by Kerry Washington (@kerrywashington) Arab designers also found a fan in “Insecure” star Issa Rae, who accepted the outstanding actress in a comedy series award in a hot pink mini dress with a voluminous and floor-trailing train from Bahrani label Monsoori. A post shared by Jason Rembert (@jasonrembert) The ceremony aired live on BET in Los Angeles, with some talent appearing in person while others watched virtually. There was no in-person audience. Jennifer Hudson was named entertainer of the year. After Hudson accepted the award on Saturday night, the singer-actor thanked the NAACP for inspiring “little girls like me.” She beat Regina King, Lil Nas X, Megan Thee Stallion and Tiffany Haddish in the category. Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, were honored with the president’s award. A post shared by Royal family (Fanpage) (@fanroyalfamily) The prince expressed his gratitude to the NAACP for welcoming him into their community before he spoke about those in Ukraine affected by the Russian invasion. “We would like to acknowledge the people of Ukraine who urgently need our continued support as a global community,” he said, while standing next to his wife. The couple were recognized for their outreach efforts in the US and around the world. “It’s safe to say I come from a very different background than my incredible wife. Yet, our lives were brought together for a reason. We share a commitment to a life of service, a responsibility to confront injustice and a belief for the most overlooked that are the most important to listen to,” he added. The awards ceremony featured a performance by nine-time Grammy winner Mary J. Blige, who was a co-headliner at the Super Bowl halftime show earlier this month, from New York City’s Apollo Theater.