NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe believes back-to-back wins signal the end of Newcastle United’s Premier League crisis of confidence. The Magpies have beaten Leeds United and Everton in their past two top-flight games, which came off the back of a run of just one win in 20 prior to that. And while the players had found it difficult to see out games — the last example of which was losing what looked like a crucial home lead against fellow strugglers Watford in January — Howe now thinks, finally, there’s signs of confidence flowing through the veins within the Newcastle ranks. “Back-to-back wins changes the mood and feeling,” said the head coach, whose side beat Frank Lampard’s Toffees 3-1 at St. James’ Park on Tuesday. ”What we have to do at this moment is stay very calm and focused. It’s two wins, nothing’s been achieved.” “We’re very happy with what we’ve delivered in those two games but we have to focus on the next one. “It’s always a challenge and a delicate balance with football in not getting too high or low. It’s one of the hardest things to achieve within the team,” he said. “My thought process now is very much to come back down to earth for Aston Villa.” Watford was no isolated incident, though. United are way ahead of any other Premier League side when it comes to points dropped from winning positions this season. The remarkable 21 points dropped having taken the lead has seen the likes of Southampton, the Hornets twice, West Ham, Tottenham, Manchester United and more ensure United walked away with less than their performances deserved. Have United learned lessons from their early-season challenges — are they now more streetwise when it comes to the relegation battle? Howe said: “I don’t know whether you can ever say we’ve learned and conquered anything in football. “I think what you have to do is try and learn from every experience and make sure when you’re in that situation again you adapt and improve,” he said. “Have we learned lessons from that period? Yes, but we still have a lot of growth to do in all aspects of our play. “The confidence levels definitely have shifted for us with the last two wins and hopefully the lads are feeling much better about themselves.” One player who has, without doubt, been growing in confidence individually is skipper Jamaal Lascelles. The club captain didn’t allow an unfortunate own goal, one he could do nothing about, negatively impact his performance in midweek. In fact, it seemed to spur him on and proved the catalyst for a towering header for the equalizer. Lascelles’ overall performance saw him stand out as one of the Magpies’ best at Leeds and again against Everton. He’d have been close to claiming man-of-the-match but for Kieran Trippier’s heroics. And it feels like Newcastle are now starting to see the Lascelles of old, the one under Rafa Benitez, who was scouted by the likes of Liverpool and eyed as a future England international. “I’ve been very impressed with Jamaal since I’ve come in,” said Howe of his central defender. “I’ve seen a player who really wants to do well and is very open to learning and improving and is very focused to achieve.” “He’s produced some very good performances for us and he’s led the group very well behind the scenes. “And I think we’ve given him some help by adding leaders in the transfer window as well,” Howe added. “Having that strong leadership going through the spine of the team and not just putting all the emphasis on Jamaal I think has been hugely important.” “I’ve been very, very pleased and hope there is more to come.”