DUBAI: Models Nora Attal and Malika El-Maslouhi have been spotted in the UAE together after flying in for work, making sure to take some time off their busy schedules to explore the emirate. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Moroccan catwalkers were snapped enjoying themselves at shopping and entertainment hub Global village before it closes for the year. Located in Dubai, Global Village is a well-known tourist attraction. The annual multicultural event offers attractions, cultural shows, street food stands and more. It has over 20 pavilions where different countries showcase their cultures and traditions through authentic clothing, food and performances.   Attal’s Instagram Stories posts showed the model pals spending some time checking out different country pavilions, including Morocco’s, where they both have roots. The 22-year-old shared snippets of their outing, posting about what the Moroccan pavilion has to offer while sampling some different foods available. The model, who was last seen in Dubai for the Chanel Cruise Collection 2022 this past November, shared a post about trying luqaimats — a local favorite deep-fried sweet dough, and shot stories of colorful Moroccan dancing costumes. Attal and El-Maslouhi are among a growing list of Arab models in the fashion industry making a name for themselves in the industry. Attal grew up in Britain with Moroccan parents, and made her industry debut with a campaign for British fashion house J.W. Anderson. Since then, she has graced multiple runways and campaigns around the world. She is based in London and has walked for iconic fashion houses such as Chanel, Dior, Prada, Versace and Fendi.   Signed to globally recognized Viva Model Management, she has appeared in renowned publications including British Vogue and Vogue France magazines. Additionally, she has starred in multiple international campaigns, including Ralph Lauren and Boss. Meanwhile, El-Maslouhi is a breakout star to watch. Born to an Italian mother and a Moroccan father, El-Maslouhi made her modeling debut when she was 18. She also has appeared in some major fashion house runways such as Valentino, Chanel, Jacquemus and Dior. She too has appeared in international fashion house campaigns and has graced a couple of renowned publications pages, such as British Vogue, Vogue Russia and Dazed Magazine.