Religious leaders in Southeast Asia have praised the “fruitful” visit to Thailand by a Muslim World League delegation, where MWL Secretary-General Sheikh Dr. Mohammed Al-Issa met with Buddhist officials and visited Islamic sites around the country. During the visit, Fatoni University in Thailand’s Pattani Province awarded Al-Issa with an honorary doctorate in the presence of government, community and academic leaders, as well as researchers and students. Islamic officials said that the visit “confirms the true image of Islam,” which embodies awareness, an understanding of human diversity and the need for cooperation to achieve common interests. The honorary doctorate came in appreciation of Islamic missions that have served Islam and the truth of its teachings, officials said, especially in a region known for its religious and ethnic diversity. Islamic religious leaders in Thailand hailed the values and messages promoted in a lecture delivered by Al-Issa at Chulalongkorn University, titled “The Alliance of Civilizations.” The lecture was received warmly in local circles, and was praised by Thai Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha. Chulalongkorn University will publish the contents of the lecture, noting that it “clarified the course of Islamic civilization” toward other civilizations and addressed important topics. Al-Issa also visited Thailand’s Islamic council, where he met the president of the council and members, including prominent Thai Muslims. During a meeting there, topics of common interest were discussed, and Al-Issa noted Thailand’s “national harmony,” saying that the presence of Islam had “strengthened” it through religious and national awareness. The MWL secretary-general also met with the head of the Buddhist leadership in Thailand, who expressed his appreciation for the visit. Al-Issa delivered a lecture at the Islamic council titled “Religious Tolerance and Building Bridges,” drawing a large audience that included officials from the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The leadership of the council expressed its appreciation for the contents of the lecture and approved its publication. Al-Issa also visited the historic Ton Son Mosque in Thailand’s capital, Bangkok, to meet with eminent Islamic officials. The religious site was founded in 1610 and is the oldest mosque in the country.