DUBAI: Two-time Grand Slam champion Garbine Muguruza is ready to defend her Dubai Duty Free Tennis Championships title in just a few days’ time. Coached by former world No. 1 Conchita Martinez, the elegant Spaniard has been a welcome visitor to Dubai since 2015 having several times made great strides toward the title before, in 2021, ending her week by hoisting the trophy. Although she dropped just one set on her way to the title, she struggled to gain the upper hand against Barbora Krejcikova in the final, barely edging the first set in a tiebreak before going on to secure the second set. After her victory, Muguruza said: “It was a tricky match. I didn’t have a feel for her. We never practiced together, we never played before. I had to work so hard in the first set. The difference was one point and I’m happy it went my way. I think she played great.” Following her triumph in Dubai, where she became the first Spanish woman to claim the title following wins by compatriots Alex Corretja, Juan Carlos Ferrero, Rafael Nadal, and Roberto Bautista Agut, the former French Open and Wimbledon champion went on to enjoy an excellent season that culminated with her lifting the winner’s trophy at the Women’s Tennis Association’s season-ending WTA Finals. In between, she won a further title in Chicago with a three-set victory over Tunisian player Ons Jabeur, before wins in four of her five matches at the WTA Finals ended her year on a triumphant note with a career-best three titles in a season. Now she is looking forward to the challenge of defending her Dubai title. Tournament director, Salah Tahlak, said: “It is never easy to defend a title as expectations are high and that brings added pressure to perform well. But Muguruza has been up to the task before as she successfully defended her title in Monterrey, and we look forward to seeing if she can do so again here in Dubai.” Colm McLoughlin, executive vice chairman and chief executive officer of Dubai Duty Free, said: “It is with great pleasure that we welcome Garbine Muguruza for the eighth successive year. “In that time, she has not only won the title but reached the semifinals on two further occasions, and after such a successful 2021 season she is certain to be a strong contender here once again. We wish her well.”