DUBAI: Loli Bahia is the breakout model to look out for this fashion month. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Following a stellar Paris Haute Couture Week — where she walked for the likes of Fendi, Alaia, and Valentino — the French-Algerian rising star jetted off to the Big Apple, where she has also been taking New York Fashion Week by storm. The 19-year-old has appeared in a number of fall 2022 ready-to-wear shows in the city that never sleeps over the past few days, including Altuzarra, Khaite, Proenza Schouler, and Tory Burch. Bahia kicked things off at US label Proenza Schouler wearing loose granulated black leather pants with a strapless black peplum top. And she was not the only model of Arab heritage to walk the runway. Palestinian-Dutch model Bella Hadid donned a hooded black peplum turtleneck with a statement large gold brooch. The look was paired with an oversized black tote bag and grey to khaki loose-fitting trousers.   Bahia went on to join the likes of Hadid’s sister Gigi on the runways of Khaite and Altuzarra. At Khaite, Paris-born Bahia stormed the runway in a black long-sleeved fringed dress with matching black kitten heels and rectangular sunglasses. Soon after, she went on to open the Altuzarra Fall 2022 show in a floor-length, baggy grey skirt, striped sweater, long beige coat, a balaclava, and a tweed tote bag. The teenager is quickly becoming one of the most in-demand models in the industry having become a runway fixture in just a couple of months after a breakthrough spring 2022 fashion month, where she walked in 65 shows.   She has taken to the catwalks for a multitude of prestigious fashion houses including Chanel, Louis Vuitton, and Valentino. Signed to Women Management Paris, she made her runway debut in 2020 at the Louis Vuitton fall 2021 show and went on to star in the Parisian fashion luxury house’s campaign for fall last year. She has also featured in numerous campaigns for high-end fashion labels including Saint Laurent, and Max Mara, and has appeared in and on covers of prestigious fashion publications such as Vogue Italia.