DUBAI: US-Palestinian-Dutch supermodel Bella Hadid is the face of the new Self-Portrait Spring 2022 campaign. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 25-year-old model was tapped by the British womenswear brand for the campaign, which was shot by British photographer Harley Weir and showcases different sides of the part-Arab model’s personality. The campaign images, released earlier this week, show the supermodel wearing nine different outfits from Self-Portrait’s latest collection, each portraying a different self-expressive and fun element. In the press release for the new campaign, founder and creative director Han Chong stated: “This collection is a love letter to the Self-Portrait woman — one who is free to face the world, feel like herself and have fun again.” A post shared by SELF-PORTRAIT (@mrselfportrait) The collection is inspired by a post-pandemic vision for when life opens up again and is expressed by feminine styles, new shapes and strong colors. It was presented during the last London Fashion Week in September. The collection hosts an array of dresses, including off-the-shoulder and halter, highlights cut-outs and features multiple styles of jackets, cardigans and blazers. Emphasizing a new modern way of dressing and strong colors such as mint, fuchsia and caramel, the collection is meant to embrace the idea of dressing effortlessly.   Hadid was key to the campaign as she embraced the concept behind the collection by portraying the different types of women who would wear the pieces. When creating the collection, Chong said: “When I think of the Self-Portrait woman, I never just have one person in mind. For me, the joy of what I do comes from designing for women with different personalities, different attitudes, and different ways of living their lives.” In the series of images showcasing the collection’s key looks, Hadid can be seen lounging inside a bathtub wearing a white dress, standing against a beach background in a tweed blazer and skirt set and wearing a ruched brown dress as she poses against two velvet chairs. A post shared by SELF-PORTRAIT (@mrselfportrait) Speaking of Hadid, Chong described her as having an “incredible purity of spirit and rawness of emotion that speaks to so many people today.” She said: “I really admire how aware and empathetic she is of the world around her, which is so refreshing. It was a real dream to work with her on this campaign, which allowed her to bring to life all the different sides of her character. It was a really special day where she just let herself be free.”