DUBAI: French-Algerian actress Sofia Boutella and part-Palestinian model Bella Hadid joined Burberry for an intimate, moonlit dinner on the rooftop of the British brand’s flagship store on Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles for a pop-up-style takeover titled “Animal Instinct.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle For the occasion, Boutella and Hadid stepped out wearing head-to-toe Burberry, of course. While Boutella opted for an all-black look that consisted of a black blazer, crop top, and loose-fitting trousers, Hadid sported a camel-colored corset mesh top with cut-outs at the side tucked into matching high-waisted leggings. The 25-year-old completed the look with a deconstructed, sleeveless trench coat and pointy black heels. A post shared by Sofia Boutella (@sofisia7) Hadid, who is also of Dutch descent, is a longtime friend of Burberry chief creative officer Riccardo Tisci and muse of the storied fashion house. The California-bred mega-model has appeared in several campaigns for Burberry, including the brand’s spring 2020 campaign, shot by photography duo Inez and Vinoodh, alongside her sister Gigi Hadid, Kendall Jenner, and Mona Tougaard, to name a few. On Tisci, who joined the brand in 2019, Bella Hadid said in a previous interview: “It is always one of my biggest honors to work with a friend like Riccardo.” Meanwhile, Algiers-born Boutella is a front-row regular at the British luxury house’s shows, as well as an avid supporter and client of the brand. Some of the “Atomic Blonde” star’s most memorable outfits were powered by Burberry, including the long sleeve, layered mini dress from the brand’s spring 2017 collection that she wore to the Panthere de Cartier party in Los Angeles. The actress and model were joined at the event by other VIP guests, which included “Euphoria” actor Jacob Elordi, US model Lori Harvey, singer Brent Faiyaz, and Brazilian actress Marina Ruy Barbosa, who descended on Rodeo Drive in droves to celebrate the house’s spring 2022 women’s collection, which made its debut digitally last season. A post shared by Burberry (@burberry) The immersive in-store experience offers a journey through spaces that are unique and unexpected in their harmony, shape, and experience. The exterior of Burberry’s Rodeo Drive flagship store has been painted in a pink, black, and white camouflage print. Inside, a presentation film plays on a floor-to-ceiling screen with surround-sound audio and is on display until March 7.