ABU DHABI: The conclusions to the Formula Regional Asian Championship, the Formula 4 UAE Championship and the Asian Le Mans series has seen Arthur Leclerc, Charlie Wurz and Nielsen Racing clinch titles at Yas Marina Circuit in Abu Dhabi. In the Formula Regional Asian Championship, Leclerc secured first place, adding a further race victory in Abu Dhabi to clinch the driver’s title. Leclerc’s team, the Mumbai Falcons, also claimed the constructor’s championship for the 2022 season. Pepe Marti and Isack Hadjar joined Leclerc on the podium, with the Pinnacle Motorsport and Hitech Grand Prix drivers finishing in second and third in the season standings. “I’m really happy to win it here in Abu Dhabi,” said Leclerc. “We had a lot of focus to win this F3 season, which was our target. I’ve driven on the track here at Yas Marina Circuit before the changes, but I really like the new layout with the high-speed corners. It’s great for the team to win here and kick off the new season with a positive start.” The UAE’s very own home racing hero, Khaled Al-Qubaisi, returned to Formula 3 this season and claimed the F3 Asian Championship Masters Trophy, awarded to the driver with the most points in the master’s category across the season. Al-Qubaisi raced for Abu Dhabi Racing alongside his two daughters Amna and Hamda, with the young drivers showing great promise throughout the season and Amna being the only woman to score championship points during the first round at Yas Marina Circuit. The future stars of motorsport were on display in the Formula 4 UAE championship, as Prema Racing’s Charlie Wurz secured the title following a grueling 16-race season which saw nine different race winners across the UAE. Prema Racing also clinched the team championships in Abu Dhabi following an impressive 2022 season in which Wurz’s rookie teammate Rafael Camara was second in the championship standings, with Aiden Neate clinching third place ahead of Nikita Bedrin by a single point. “I’m so thankful to the team, and it’s really great to win the title here on such a famous circuit,” said Wurz. “It’s amazing to win it where F1 drivers fight and battle. They’re such sensational drivers and I hope to be competing here one day at that level.” To conclude the 2022 Asian Le Mans, following their clean-sweep of the two-race series in Dubai, it was Nielsen Racing who clinched the title in impressive style at Yas Marina Circuit with one race to spare. In the GT3 classes, Inception Racing and SPS Automotive held on following their strong drives in the opening rounds to stand atop the podium as winners in Abu Dhabi. The victory in the 2022 Asian Le Mans championship also provides Nielsen with a highly coveted invitation to the iconic 24 Hours of Le Mans in June, which will see Rodrigo Sales, Matt Bell and Ben Hanley reunited in France to compete in one of the world’s most prestigious racing events.