 Cairo: Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi discussed strengthening cooperation in several areas with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, in talks at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. The two presidents covered a number of issues, especially the manufacture of coronavirus vaccines and electric cars, according to a statement by the Egyptian president’s official spokesman. Xi welcomed El-Sisi’s visit to Beijing, which, he said, would contribute to strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries, and praised positive developments following from the comprehensive strategic partnership between Beijing and Cairo, especially in trade, communication and political consultation on regional and international issues. He stressed that China attaches special importance to its relations with Egypt in view of the pivotal role the North African country plays across the continent, the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean. El-Sisi affirmed Egypt’s keenness to build on the momentum resulting from the regular meetings held between senior officials of both states in order to broaden cooperation, especially economic development and trade. He continued that Egypt was keen “to attract more Chinese investments to take advantage of the promising opportunities that are currently available in Egypt in various sectors,” taking into account the good reputation of Chinese companies in Egypt as one of the most important sources of foreign direct investment and advanced technological expertise in a number of economic sectors. The talks focused on cooperation in scientific research and technology transfers related to the pharmaceutical industry, the manufacture of coronavirus vaccines, and industrial technologies, in addition to strengthening cooperation in information technology and electric car manufacturing, and maximizing cooperation between healthcare providers in the two countries to transfer Chinese experiences in combating COVID-19. The pair also discussed ways to enhance trade, as well as reviewing other joint projects in various fields and the progress made in their implementation. The two presidents agreed on the importance of the role played by the Suez Canal Economic Zone in promoting China’s “Belt and Road” initiative, especially through the Egyptian-Chinese zone for economic and trade cooperation, which contributes to pushing Egypt’s efforts to employ the important strategic location of the canal to become a global logistical and economic center. The Egyptian presidential spokesman added that the meeting touched on regional and international issues of common interest, including the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, as well as the Palestinian cause and the ongoing crises in Libya, Syria and Yemen, where the two sides agreed on the importance of continuing coordination and consultation at a bilateral level and within the framework of international organizations, as well as strengthening mutual cooperation in the field of combating terrorism. They also discussed ways to support the tripartite partnership and broader cooperation in Africa, with a focus on development programs, the African Development Agenda 2063 and the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN.