DUBAI: Singer and designer Rihanna continues to showcase her boundary breaking maternity style. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Barbados-born superstar on Saturday showed up at the new Savage X Fenty Los Angeles store opening wearing a head-turning outfit custom-made by the creative director of Tunisian fashion house Alaia, Pieter Muller. The multi-Grammy-winning entrepreneur wore a long red, vinyl, hooded coat that featured a waist-cinching belt right above the torso, accentuating her growing baby bump. She paired the striking outfit with matching strappy heels by Jordanian-Romanian footwear designer Amina Muaddi and a body chain from part-Egyptian jewelry designer Jacquie Aiche. A dramatic flick of matching red eyeliner completed her trailblazing look. A post shared by Arab News Lifestyle (@arabnews.lifestyle) The custom trench is reminiscent to the red gown with a long train, custom-designed by the late Tunisian couturier Azzedine Alaia, that she wore to the 2013 Grammy Awards. Alaia, who passed away in November 2017, was very close to Rihanna. Following his death, she posted a tribute to him showing a photo of them both at an intimate dinner. In the caption to the picture, she said: “My dear Alaia, you will live on forever.” Since the star, born Robyn Rihanna Fenty, recently announced she was expecting a baby with partner, rapper A$AP Rocky, while wearing a vintage pink Chanel jacket, the 33-year-old has gone on to redefine maternity dressing with the help of her longtime stylist Jahleel Weaver. Whether being snapped by the paparazzi casually strolling the streets of New York City or attending glamorous red-carpet events, rather than hide her growing figure, Rihanna has instead decided to sartorially embrace her baby bump, constantly opting for stomach-baring pieces that embrace body positivity and highlight the joy of pregnancy. One example was the lace-up black cardigan from French fashion house Jean Paul Gaultier.   Meanwhile, she made her red-carpet debut as a mom-to-be on Friday at the Fenty Beauty and Fenty Skin photocall in Los Angeles wearing a glittering head-to-toe shredded look from The Attico. Speaking to People Magazine at the event, Rihanna said: “I’m enjoying having not to worry about covering up my tummy. “Right now, being pregnant, some days you just feel like, ‘ugh, I just want to lay here on this couch all day.’ But when you put on a little face and a little lipstick, you transform. You put some clothes on, and it’s like, when you look good, you feel good,” she added.