DUBAI: The LEAP conference in Riyadh kicks off second day of highly engaging networking and insightful sessions around technology. Held over three days, the event picks up from the opening on Tuesday, where many tech deals were announced, and the Kingdom’s commitment to investing in technology renewed. Saudi Arabia continues to be the driving force behind technology and innovation in the region. With over $6.4b invested to date, the quest to build the ultimate tech hub is on! #LEAP22 @McitGovSa pic.twitter.com/HTPaADvBv4 — LEAP (@LEAPandInnovate) February 1, 2022 In a keynote address, Saudi Minister of Communications and Information Technology Abdullah Al-Swaha said the government has invested around $6.4 billion in future technologies, enumerating local companies leading in this front. Several global tech giants also revealed investment plans in the Middle East, in line with a regional trend that sees technology as a driving force for economic diversification, particularly for Gulf countries. READ MORE: Aramco launches $1bn venture capital fund at LEAP after a year in operation The second day will feature more sessions on how society is adapting to the developments in modern technology. Saudi energy minister, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, is expected to deliver a keynote speech. Other notable speakers include Frank Salzgeber from the European Space Agency, Nele Leosk from the government of Estonia, and Abdullah Sharif Al-Ghamdi, the president of Saudi Data and Artificial Intelligence Authority. The collaborative energy and community engagement at #LEAP22 is testimony of the turbocharged interest in #SaudiArabia’s growing digital economy. I congratulate @McitGovSa and HE @aalswaha on @LEAPandInnovate's success. pic.twitter.com/LGBxRcMQEO — خالد الفالح | Khalid Al Falih (@Khalid_AlFalih) February 2, 2022 Updates (GMT) 12.30 — If you happen to be a start-up with an idea on how to develop a smart energy system, then The Red Sea Development Company wants to hear from you. The company’s ventures director, Michael Slage, issued a ‘come and find us’ plea, insisting that TRSDC does not mind if it does business with established companies or new players in the market. 11.12 — Space technology and the metaverse will receive investment and support from the Saudi Arabian government, the Minister of Investment said as he set out the Kingdom’s digital ambitions. 10.16 — BSV Blockchain will sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the Saudi Arabia Ministry of Communications and Information Technology to help investigate how Blockchain can help the Kingdom towards its Vision 2030 strategy. 08.45 — Saudi Arabia's energy minister hit back against skepticism over the country’s environmental commitments. Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, minister of technology for energy transition, talked up his country’s plan to achieve net zero on carbon emissions by 2060. “The answer is simple," he said, "instead of waiting for solutions to come our way we should be there to develop this solution and get the world into it.”