DUBAI: From runways to front rows, Arab models, celebrities and influencers have been shining at Milan Fashion Week with their trendy styles. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle French-Algerian catwalk star Loli Bahia is the breakout model to look out for this week. She walked the runway for renowned luxury labels like Fendi, Max Mara and Prada at the fashion week, which runs until Feb. 28.   For Fendi, which part-Palestinian supermodel Bella Hadid opened, Bahia wore a sheer grey dress that was accessorized with a furry clutch and elbow-length gloves. During the Max Mara show, the rising star wore a bright oversized yellow knit sweater with matching-colored joggers and a large fluffy bag from the brand’s autumn/winter 2022 collection.   The 19-year-old model walked the Italian fashion house’s runway alongside both Hadid sisters, Bella and Gigi. Gigi wore an eye-catching monochromatic ensemble that featured a maxi dress, a high-neck top and a furry jacket.   Bella, however, wore two outfits: one was a brown skirt paired with a sleek knit top, while the other was a sleeveless sweater, which she paired with gloves, and a puffy printed skirt.   Another Arab model to hit the runway for the Max Mara show was Nora Attal. The British-Moroccan star championed a beige dress with geometric designs printed on it.   For the Prada runway, Bahia wore an oversized, knee-length coat with green feathers on the sleeves. The Italian label’s collection offered sheer vest-like dresses and embellished coats, presenting a collection its designers described as looking at “the history of women.”   Seated in the front row was reality television star Kim Kardashian, who watched her sister Kendall Jenner on the catwalk.  A post shared by Deema Al Asadi ديما الأسدي (@deemaalasadi) Among the Arab influencers and celebrities who attended shows at the fashion week were Iraqi influencer Deema Al-Asadi, Lebanese reality TV star Alice Abdelaziz, Tunisian actress Rym Saidi Breidy, Lebanese host Diala Makki, Lebanese social media star Karen Wazen and more.  A post shared by Alice (@aliceabdelaziz)  A post shared by Rym Saidi Breidy ريم السعيدي (@rymsaidi)  A post shared by Diala Makki ديالا مكي (@dialamakki)  A post shared by Karen Wazen Bakhazi كارن وازن (@karenwazen)