RIYADH: Dozens of diplomats and a host of special guests attended an event in Riyadh to mark International Mother Language Day.
The annual event, which falls on Feb. 21, aims to promote linguistic and cultural diversity and multilingualism around the world.
At the Embassy of Bangladesh in Riyadh’s Diplomatic Quarter, Dr. Mohammad Javed Patwary, the South Asian county’s ambassador to Saudi Arabia, hosted a gathering for about 45 diplomats, including nine ambassadors, as well as officials from the UN office and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
He said in his welcome speech that many languages, and their related cultural heritage, were disappearing from the world and called for everyone to do more to protect them.
Hattan bin Samman, secretary-general of the Saudi National Commission for Education, Culture and Science, was guest of honor at the event. Ibrahim Elziq, the World Health Organization’s representative to Saudi Arabia, and Amina Al-Hajri, OIC director-general for cultural, social and family affairs, also attended as special guests.
Dya-Eddine Said Bamakhrama, the dean of the diplomatic corps and Djibouti’s ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Indian Ambassador Dr. Ausaf Sayeed and Sri Lankan Ambassador Pakeer Mohideen Amza also spoke at the meeting.
They stressed the importance of people learning their mother language to protect their heritage and promote cultural diversity.
They also warned of the scarcity of technological support for multilingual education, and called upon all countries to promote and maintain cultural heritage and diversity through the practice of language.
The speakers also noted Bangladesh’s contribution to the recognition of Feb. 21 as International Mother Language Day.
The theme of this year’s event — “Using technology for multilingual learning: Challenges and opportunities” — seeks to promote the role of technology to advance multilingual education and support the development of quality teaching and learning for all.
As well as the discussions, the day was celebrated with the showing of a documentary film and songs sung in different languages.