ABU DHABI: Leading Arabic digital content house Majarra has announced the launch of Fortune Arabia, the latest edition of the global platform for corporate, business and economic policy news. The magazine is licensed by Fortune, which published its first edition in the US in 1930, and now has more 10 foreign products covering, among other places, China, Greece, Korea, Indonesia, India, Italy and Turkey. “At this time of economic growth and transformation across the region, people need trusted business news and analysis in their language to make informed decisions,” Abdulsalam Haykal, Majarra’s executive chairman, told Arab News. Hamoud Almahmoud, who was the first editor-in-chief of Harvard Business Review Arabia and has worked at several global media institutions including the BBC, will head up the new product. “Fortune Arabia aims to help its community make sense of business news, and how people and events are shaping the trends,” he told Arab News. “Our approach is to cut out the fluff and talk straight. You will find concise news and analysis that serves the interests of busy people.” The new magazine will be available on fortunearabia.com and will send out a daily news brief to subscribers titled “Manager Bulletin” or “Nashrat Al Modee.” Almahmoud said the newsletter would enable readers to “start their morning with a dose of vital information, including flash news bites and insights about new policies, investments, startups, trends and senior appointments.” Majarra has appointed a team of content creators, as well as business and economy media specialists in the Arab region to work on the title. It will be part of the Majarra subscription that gives users access to the company’s other offerings, including Harvard Business Review and MIT Technology Review. Almahmoud said the new magazine would begin publishing its rankings later in the year, with the first being the Fortune Arabia 100. “We want to offer Fortune’s robust methodology to shedding light on the individuals and companies who have a vast impact on our lives,” he said. Haykal said the launch of Fortune Arabia was in line with Majarra’s vision to provide best-in-class Arabic content to readers around the world. “Fortune aims to play a role in informing business leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and policymakers alike,” he said.