DUBAI: The United Arab Emirates Cycling Federation and Spinneys UAE have announced an official partnership, in collaboration with Dubai Sports Council, to continue the growth of the sport of cycling in the UAE. The new partnership between the UAE Cycling Federation and Spinneys UAE will promote the highest standards of safety, well-being and sporting integrity, and serve as a commitment to growing the sport of cycling across the UAE, as well as closely aligning with high-profile events including the Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge. On the official launch of the new partnership, Saeed Harreb, secretary general of Dubai Sports Council, said: “It is with great pleasure that we reveal today this strong, new partnership between Spinneys UAE and the UAE Cycling Federation. The sport of cycling in Dubai is one which has grown significantly in popularity over the last decade, and we look forward to seeing how the sport continues to expand and evolve in the city of Dubai as a result of this important alliance.” Under the new partnership, the UAE Cycling Federation and the Union Cycliste Internationale Gran Fondo has revealed that the 2022 Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge will be included in the UCI Gran Fondo World Series calendar for 2022. The 92 km road race, in its 12th year, will join sanctioned events from across the globe in the 28-race World Series for 2022, with the top 20 percent of cyclists qualifying for the UCI Gran Fondo World Championships, which will be held in Italy in September. During the press conference, the official partnership agreement was signed between the UAE Cycling Federation and the Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Cycle Challenge, under which the event and all its activities will be organized in accordance with the requirements of the UAE and International Cycling Federations. Through aligning in key events including this year’s Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge, the partnership aims to support the growth of the sport of cycling and expand its presence in the UAE. The new partnership aims to enhance health, safety and sports integrity standards, confirming the partners’ commitment to developing cycling across the country according to the highest standards, in addition to uniting efforts in hosting and organizing major sports competitions, including the Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycling Challenge. Following the official announcement of the partnership and this year’s UCI Gran Fondo Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge race for 2022, Mansoor Juma Buosaiba, president of the UAE Cycling Federation, said: “We are incredibly proud to partner with Spinneys UAE and continue to support the growth of our great sport across the nation. The addition of the locally beloved Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge to the UCI Gran Fondo World Series is an important moment in the sport’s development in the UAE, and it is our aim to continue to provide our passionate cycling community here in the UAE with fitting platforms to enjoy one of the world’s greatest sports.” During the official announcement, Hareb and Buosaiba presented the coveted yellow leaders’ jerseys to the current frontrunners of this year’s DUBAI BIG 5 challenge, Gregory Simpson and Babita Khatri. Following their strong performances in the opening rounds of this year’s competition, Simpson and Khatri will wear the yellow jersey from the front of the peloton in this year’s final race in the Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge main event on Feb. 19. This year’s event will feature the main UCI Gran Fondo Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge alongside the new Live Well Outride, a shorter 40 km course to allow new members of the UAE’s cycling community to participate in the local classic on Feb. 19. “We’re thrilled to officially reveal the new race routes for the 2022 Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge and the new Live Well Outride race for 2022,” said Stewart Howison, race director of the Spinneys Dubai 92 Cycle Challenge. “There are many incredible sights to take in along the new routes for this year’s races, including Dubai’s Emirates Hills and Jumeirah Islands, the Montgomery Golf Course and the crown jewel of the Expo 2020 Dubai site,” he said. “It’s something we’ve been waiting eagerly to share, and we are now counting down the days to an incredible weekend of sporting action for cyclists of all ages and stages in our passionate community here in the UAE.”