DUBAI: German luxury fashion house Boss on Thursday launched its new global campaign and Dubai got a starring role in the company’s adverts. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle In a series of posts shared on the brand’s Instagram page, Boss teased its upcoming designs with short videos featuring a diverse cast of social media stars, celebrities, and models.  A post shared by BOSS (@boss) The first clip was of German TikTok star Younes Zarou, who boosts more than 44.6 million followers on the video-focused platform. In a short video, the 24-year-old influencer, who is also a singer and actor, receives a direct message from Boss on Instagram that reads: “Meet us in Dubai.” He quickly packs his suitcase and heads over to the UAE city to hop on safari adventures in the desert. A similar video featured US model Wisdom Kaye, who in the clip said: “I just got this strange DM (direct message) from Boss that says they have a proposition for me, and they want me to meet them in Dubai … and they hope I’m not afraid of heights.”  A post shared by BOSS (@boss) Kaye’s video then shares clips of his trip to Dubai in which he is seen sandboarding on the city’s golden dunes sporting a Boss outfit from head-to-toe. The fashion house on Thursday hosted an event in Sonara Desert Camp for the new launch.  A post shared by BOSS (@boss) Its new campaign, Be Your Own Boss, featured a global cast, who also attended the party, including US singer Teyana Taylor, French model Cindy Bruna, Italian actor Michele Morrone, German athlete Alica Ѕchmidt, Senegalese TikToker Khaby Lame, South African model Candice Swanepoel, and US runway star Taylor Hill.  A post shared by BOSS (@boss) The adverts also featured Emirati twins Mohammed and Humaid Hadban, Lebanese singer Dana Hourani, Iranian triplets Elnaz, Tanaz, and Golnaz Hakkak, Iraqi para-athlete Zainab Al-Eqabi and others, who posed championing the brand’s latest release. Other regional social media stars attending the event included Sherif Fayed from Egypt, Emirati Mthayel Al-Ali, Soha Taha, Haifa Beseisso, Maram Zbaeda, and Yasmin Meimand.