LONDON: Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed on Friday attended the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games, which was inaugurated by Chinese President Xi Jinping.
The event, which took place in Beijing’s National Stadium, known as the “Bird’s Nest,” was also attended by leaders and representatives from around the world.   I was honored to attend the spectacular opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing. I wish the organisers and competitors every success for the Games, which embody the power of sport to promote understanding and friendship among the people of the world. pic.twitter.com/on5ivjmPXk — محمد بن زايد (@MohamedBinZayed) February 4, 2022 Sheikh Mohammed, who arrived in Beijing earlier on Friday on an invitation from Xi, said he was delighted to attend the event, wishing all the participants success, Emirati state news agency WAM reported.
Saudi Arabia’ ambassador to the US Princess Reema bint Bandar also attended the opening ceremony on behalf of the Kingdom, where she cheered the first ever Saudi team to qualify for the winter games.
“Filled with pride as I witness the first ever Saudi Winter Olympics Team at the opening ceremony in Beijing today! They inspire us by proving that there is no limit to their ambition,” shae said in a tweet. Filled with pride as I witness the first ever Saudi Winter Olympics Team at the opening ceremony in Beijing today! They inspire us by proving that there is no limit to their ambition @saudiolympic @swsfksa @fasksa8#WinterOlympics #Beijing2022 pic.twitter.com/WJl3RAYr6c — Reema Bandar Al-Saud (@rbalsaud) February 4, 2022 The ceremony featured artistic and musical performances and exhibits, which showcased various aspects of Chinese culture. Athletes then waved the flags of their countries, while the Olympic flag was raised, followed by the lighting of the torch, and a firework spectacle. HRH Ambassador @rbalsaud salutes the #Saudi Winter Olympics team, which made history as the first ever Saudi team to compete in the #WinterOlympics @saudiolympic @swsfksa #Beijing2022 #Olympics https://t.co/crxJZPmLQq — Saudi Embassy (@SaudiEmbassyUSA) February 4, 2022 