Joel Rosario and Christophe Lemaire, two of world racing’s star riders, have been confirmed for the stc International Jockeys Challenge at King Abdulaziz Racecourse on Friday, Feb. 25, a day before the showpiece Saudi Cup. Rosario and Lemaire are the fourth and fifth male jockeys to be announced in the 14-rider event, competing alongside Glen Boss, Jim Crowley and last year’s champion, Shane Foley. Rosario, who rode Knicks Go to finish fourth in last year’s Saudi Cup but was not involved in the stc IJC, said: “I’m looking forward to taking part in the International Jockeys Challenge against some of the best jockeys in the world. I’ve competed in a few jockey challenges over the years, but this will be my first one in Saudi. “The Saudi Cup meeting is a really unique event and I feel lucky to be going back there again, being around a lot of wonderful people and horses. The Saudi Cup itself is a great race, it has become a big part of the international racing calendar. “I was very excited to ride Knicks Go last year. He was up against some very good horses like Charlatan and Mishriff. He ran a good race to finish fourth, but you’re taking on the best horses in the world.” And the Dominican Republic-born rider feels he has another live chance in this year’s $20 million event, partnering Steve Asmussen’s Midnight Bourbon “I ride Midnight Bourbon this year and he’s a very good horse,” Rosario said. “He ran well behind Mandaloun at Fair Grounds last time and we will take each other on again in Saudi. It’s fun to be part of the race again and I think he has a good chance in what looks quite an open race this year.” Japan-based French jockey Lemaire is no stranger to Saudi Arabia either, having partnered Gold Dream to finish sixth in the inaugural Saudi Cup two years ago, and he is looking forward to visiting again. “I haven’t left Japan since the start of COVID, so I’m really looking forward to the trip,” he said. “It’s cold in Japan right now too so it will be nice to have some warm weather and I’m happy to be traveling again. “I know the track well, having ridden in the 2020 Saudi Cup, and I look forward to riding on both the turf and the dirt this year. The dirt course is really nice and very fair. Given it’s an international event, it’s good that they’ve introduced the turf race this year. Sometimes the American jockeys can ride the dirt better, and the Europeans are better on the turf, but this will be fair. “There’s nothing more exciting than competing against the best riders from around the world, and as soon as we get up on the horse we are all rivals and we all want to win. This year’s riders look to be a very experienced bunch, so it will be a good competition.” Lemaire is also eyeing up some of Saturday’s prizes, having been provisionally booked for five rides on the card. “I’ve got five good rides at the moment, all on Japanese-trained horses,” he said. “I think my best chance will be Authority (in the Neom Turf Cup presented by Jahez), who was second in the Japan Cup behind Contrail. That was a wonderful performance, and though this will be his first run of the year, he tends to go well fresh and I’m expecting a big run from him. “In The Saudi Cup, Japan have two good chances with Marche Lorraine and T O Keynes. The mare was impressive in America at the Breeders’ Cup and I think she’ll like the dirt in Riyadh. Her trainer, Yoshito Yahagi, knows how to travel his horses and I think she can be very competitive, even though it’s a tougher race than in America. “As for T O Keynes, he was a brilliant winner of the Champions Cup and is a tough horse. This will be his first time running abroad, so we don’t know how he’ll take that, but he has the potential to challenge.” The IJC field comprises seven male jockeys – five international and two Saudi-based – and seven female riders, six of whom have been announced. The stc International Jockeys Challenge features four $400,000 handicaps, where riders receive 15 percent of prize money and there is a further $100,000 prize pot for the challenge itself.