RIYADH: Saudi Arabia's Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan met with his French counterpart in Paris on Monday. During the meeting, Prince Faisal and French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian reviewed the frameworks of Saudi-French relations and ways to strengthen them in various fields to serve the interests of their countries, Saudi Press Agency reported. The two ministers reviewed the most important regional and international developments, and efforts made to support security and stability resulting from the importance that both countries place on continuing consultation and exchanging views on developments in the world. They also discussed the latest developments in Yemen, stressing the importance of supporting efforts to reach a comprehensive political solution to the crisis in the country, including the efforts of UN Special Envoy for Yemen Hans Grundberg, based on the Gulf Cooperation Council Initiative and its implementation mechanisms, the outcomes of the National Dialogue Conference, and relevant UN Security Council resolutions.  Le Drian affirmed France's full support for the Saudi peace initiative which was announced in March 2021. He also unequivocally condemned Houthi cross-border attacks. Prince Faisal and Le Drian discussed Iran’s nuclear program and the importance of any nuclear deal preventing Iran from developing or acquiring a nuclear weapon. They also agreed on the importance of continuing coordination to face challenges and enhance regional security. The two officials discussed the difficult conditions that Lebanese people are experiencing due to the deep economic crisis in the country and agreed on financing several humanitarian projects in Lebanon, including offering direct support to hospitals and first health care centers. They also agreed to establish a joint working mechanism to provide support to the Lebanese people and to finance some activities of international humanitarian non-governmental organizations working in Lebanon. Prince Faisal and his French counterpart also discussed the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and developments related to it.