RIYADH: The decisive stance of King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has provided a positive impetus for joint Arab action and is embodied in the practical steps taken to support Arab countries, according to the speaker of the Saudi Shoura Council.
Addressing the opening session of the 32nd Conference of the Arab Inter-Parliamentary Union, which opened on Thursday in Cairo, Dr. Abdullah Al-Asheikh drew attention to the Kingdom’s keenness to play its humanitarian role by providing aid to alleviate the suffering of Arab citizens.
He also reiterated the Kingdom’s condemnation of the attacks by Houthi terrorist militia on Saudi Arabia, the UAE and international shipping in the Red Sea, which he said were aimed at destabilizing the region’s security and stability.
Al-Asheikh said also that the Kingdom was keen to achieve security and stability in Yemen, and to bring an end to the suffering of its people.   He expressed the Kingdom’s support for international efforts to reach a political solution in line with the Gulf initiative and its executive mechanism, the outcomes of the comprehensive national dialogue, and UN Security Council Resolution 2216. He also praised the efforts made by the Arab coalition to support legitimacy in Yemen.
Al-Asheikh also expressed the Kingdom’s condemnation of Iran’s aggressive policies, and its support for international efforts to prevent Tehran’s possession of nuclear weapons and call for its full cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
During the conference — which is attended by the heads of legislative councils and parliaments in Arab countries, as well as Ahmed Aboul Gheit, the secretary-general of the Arab League — Al-Asheikh said that the Palestinian cause remained a central and stable issue for Saudi Arabia and was at the forefront of its concerns.
The Kingdom’s foreign goals were focused on contributing to the region’s security, prosperity and development, he added.
Al-Asheikh said that through its Vision 2030 framework, Saudi Arabia aspired to have a leading economy and an effective society that contributed to the renaissance of humanity.