RIYADH: Arab News, the leading English-language Middle East daily, has launched a new podcast to bolster its growing range of multimedia products. “The Mayman Show” is a weekly podcast hosted by reporter Hussam Al-Mayman and recorded at the company’s headquarters in Riyadh. In his many years in media and communications, Al-Mayman has covered major sporting, entertainment and culture events for the newspaper and other media outlets. The show will revolve around personal and relatable conversations between the host and his celebrity guests, who will include actors, comedians, models, athletes and more.  “With ‘The Mayman Show’ adding to our growing list of media products, Arab News is ensuring it maintains its stature as the voice of a changing region by catering to several audiences and interests,” Arab News’ Editor-in-Chief Faisal J. Abbas said. “The podcast will focus mainly on the current renaissance happening in the Kingdom’s cultural, social and tourism and entertainment scene through the insights of both the creative Saudis who are making it happen and the visitors and expats who are witnessing history unfold,” he added. Al-Mayman described the show as “a milestone for Saudi talent such as myself. Similar content like this is available via independent platforms and not a premier news outlet such as Arab News.” He continued: “I think what makes it different is the fact that it’s an informal conversation on an official platform. As the slogan goes: ‘I like stories, what’s yours?’”  The first episode features American online sensation and content creator Paris Verra, who is based in Saudi Arabia. She discusses her experience making a video for the Saudi pavilion at Dubai Expo 2020, her life in the Kingdom and her travels around the world. “No matter how many times I visit each place in Saudi, each experience is very different from the other. And one of the things that makes those adventures, our experiences, so different and unique from each other are, honestly, the people,” Verra said on the podcast. “It’s the people who you’re with and also the ones that you meet,” she said.   The first episode of the new podcast runs for 30 minutes and will be released on Thursday. Other Arab News specials include “Frankly Speaking,” “The Ray Hanania Show” and “The Briefing Room.” Established in 1975, Arab News is part of the Saudi Research and Media Group and has editions in Pakistan, Japan, France as well as the main English-language version.  