JEDDAH: Jeddah’s superdome is hosting WWE’s final stop before WrestleMania for the first time on Saturday. The event kicked off strong with a match which was set to take place 2 years ago at WrestleMania, with Roman Reigns and Goldberg set the stage for the evening kicking off their Universal title bout. Due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic this match didn't happen, and Goldberg appeared and challenged Reigns to a match for the Universal Championship in a move that many say is one come back too many. Roman proved to be a wrecking force as he defeated Goldberg via submission to retain his championship. Next up was the Woman's Elimination Chamber match. This match was announced at the beginning of the month on an episode of Raw, with the winner earning a Raw Women's Championship match at WrestleMania 38. Bianca Belair, Liv Morgan, Rhea Ripley, Doudrop, and Nikki A.S.H. were announced for the match with one spot to be filled. The following week, Belair won a gauntlet match to earn the right to enter the match, also after weeks of therapy sessions because her doll had been destroyed at Extreme Rules last September, Alexa Bliss completed her final session and named herself as the sixth competitor for the match. The menacing structure was a befitting stage for the ladies as they put it all on the line. With double suplexs, and rough chops as part of this showdown all the women put their heart on line. Belair and Alexa were the final two participants of the match and Belair pinned Bliss to win the match and the shot for the title at WrestleMania. Next was a tag team match between Naomi and Ronda Rousey taking on Charlotte Flair and Sonya Deville. In an interview, Rousey stated she could fight Sonya Deville with one arm tied behind her back due to Sonya’s injury before the match. Deville would seem to pull a trick as her arm healed and wouldn't reveal that until the match started. The baddest woman on the planet proved that her game is as she said as Rousey and Naomi won this bout.  The Falls Count Anywhere stipulation match between Drew McIntyre and Madcap Moss takes place after the women's meyham. Moss has been attempting to get out of any match with McIntyre, this came to be after McIntyre emerged on SmackDown demanded Moss to get in this match. Moss obliged and  McIntyre said they would not just be having any kind of match, it would be a falls count anywhere match which saw the action spill all over the ring area. McIntyre came out of this match with a dominant win. The long awaited comeback of WWE Hall of Famer Lita in her singles match and fight with Becky Lynch for the RAW Women’s Championship was next. This is Lita’s first since 2006. The two went toe-to-toe to see who will take the championship to WrestleMania against Belair. Lynch barely survived and retained the gold. The Viking Raiders Erik and Ivar had their sights set on the SmackDown Tag Team Championship against the Usos.  Those aspirations didn't bear fruit as the Usos made quick work of their challengers and won the match. The Elimination Chamber match is 20 years old. In those years the champion has only retained his championship four times in this menacing structure and the men's Elimination Chamber was assured to have choas. At the Royal Rumble, Bobby Lashley defeated Brock Lesnar to win the WWE Championship due to Paul Heyman betraying Lesnar. On the following night on RAW it was announced that Lashley would be defending the WWE Championship in the Chamber match. It was announced later that Lesnar would be competing in the Elimination Chamber match alongside Seth Rollins who announced that he would be one of the participants. The final three spots were determined in qualification matches with Austin Theory, Riddle, and AJ Styles by qualifying and winning their matches. Lashley suffered an injury and was not able to finish the match. Lesnar went through a rampage after exiting his pod and eliminated most of the participants. Theory was the last to feel the wrath of Brock in the match. A low blow from Austin Theory was the only thing that could slow down the beast for a brief moment. It was a cat and mouse, spectacular showing by the two as Brock gave Theory an F-5 from the top of the pod inside the Elimination Chamber for the win.