DUBAI: Forget the predictable box of chocolates and flowers on Valentine’s Day — renowned fashion photographer duo Inez and Vinoodh unveiled a virtual kissing booth  for Feb. 14, and all in a good cause. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The legendary image-makers launched the campaign as part of their Double Dutch initiative, which promotes sustainable and charitable gifting. After learning that some $16 billion worth of holiday gifts are thrown out in a year in the US alone, the pair launched a charitable platform in collaboration with savings platform Kidfund at the end of 2020 to create digital “cards” that people can exchange instead of physical gifts. In celebration of Valentine’s Day, the photographers called on a number of supermodels and stars, including Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch beauty Imaan Hammam, to kiss a piece of paper that was turned into a digital kiss that people could gift to their loved ones, along with a charity of their choice. A post shared by Inezandvinoodh (@inezandvinoodh) Hammam supports She’s the First, a grassroots organization that helps empower young women through education around the world, and which the catwalk star is an ambassador for. “Another kiss by a fierce woman to send to another fierce woman!! Proud to have this beautiful @imaanhammam #valentinesdaycard now on @doubledutchcash so you can send her kiss to your loves! Use it wisely: we suggest to do this with a donation to @shesthefirst! Kisses iv,” wrote the photographers on Instagram. This is just one of the many charitable organizations that customers can choose to support. After selecting their digital card and artwork, customers can select an amount to give to one of the site’s other listed charities, which currently include the Honnold Foundation, Wildlife Conservation Network, Parley for the Oceans and the WHO COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund. The 25-year-old has been joined by model and writer Emily Ratajkowski, “Squid Games” actress HoYeon Jung and Brazilian supermodel Gisele Bundchen.