DUBAI: Australian Open finalist Danielle Collins and quarterfinalist Gael Monfils will be among the strong field set to take part in the Dubai Duty Free Tennis Championships later this month. Many players who performed with distinction in Australia will soon be packing their bags to travel to Dubai, and almost every one of the world’s top 20 female players will battle for the title, including four former winners and defending champion Garbine Muguruza. “We are eagerly looking forward to seeing the many players who have played so well in Australia also competing here in Dubai,” said Colm McLoughlin, executive vice chairman and CEO of Dubai Duty Free. “As well as welcoming back five Dubai champions, there are many others who have also performed with distinction at the DDFTC without being able to win the trophy, and we are thrilled that they are returning to try once again. We wish everyone well.” Among those who will be full of confidence will be Iga Swiatek, after her inspiring run to the Australian Open semifinals. Earlier in January she also reached the semifinals in Adelaide, defeating US Open finalist Leylah Fernandez and former world number one Victoria Azarenka before falling to Ashleigh Barty. Others to watch out for include Australian Open quarterfinalists Jessica Pegula, who fell to eventual champion Barty and late last year overcame two-time Dubai champion Elina Svitolina at Indian Wells, and 2021 Dubai finalist Barbora Krejcikova, who not only did well in Melbourne but excelled in reaching the Sydney final. Competition for a place in the main draw has been tougher than ever, and that means many players of the highest quality will need to play in the qualifying rounds. Among those competing for a place is 2022 Australian Open finalist Collins. Although her fantastic run in Melbourne lifted her into the top 10 for the first time in her career, her ranking of 30 when entries to Dubai were set left her just short of automatic entry into the main draw. Should she find herself in the 32-player field, she will certainly not be afraid of the opposition, including the Dubai champions she might face. In 2021 she defeated two-time Dubai winner Simona Halep in Montreal, and former finalists Elena Rybakina and Daria Kasatkina in San Jose where she won the title. To reach the Australian Open final she defeated Iga Swiatek, having ended the outstanding run of yet another Dubai finalist, Alize Cornet, in the quarters. When attention turns to the 30th anniversary celebrations of the men’s event, no less than four Dubai-bound players from the ATP Tour reached the Australian Open quarterfinals, including two-time Dubai semi-finalist and 2022 Adelaide champion Gael Monfils. He fell to Matteo Berrettini in a tough five-setter that lasted three hours 49 minutes, and in an even more dramatic battle 2021 Dubai semi-finalist Denis Shapovalov stretched Rafael Nadal to an epic four hour battle before also surrendering in five sets. Even that marathon was eclipsed by the titanic struggle between eventual winner Daniil Medvedev and Felix Auger-Aliassimi that lasted a remarkable four hours 42 minutes. The fourth Australian Open quarterfinalist who will fight for the Dubai title is Jannik Sinner, who fell to two-time Dubai runner-up Stefanos Tsitsipas. Others who showed outstanding form in Australia before setting their sights on Dubai include reigning Dubai champion Aslan Karatsev, who defeated former Dubai winner Andy Murray in the Sydney final. Karen Khachanov will also have drawn confidence from his run to the Adelaide final, and Marin Cilic too will have been delighted with his runs to the semi-final of two events in Adelaide. “With so many top players competing in Dubai, including world number one Novak Djokovic bidding for his 6th Dubai title, demand for tickets is high and tennis fans are urged to purchase their tickets as early as possible,” said Salah Tahlak, the tournament director. The tournament begins with the WTA event which takes place Feb. 14-19, and then continues with the men’s ATP Tour 500 tournament on Feb. 21-26.