NEWCASTLE: Midfielder Isaac Hayden has spoken of his “bitter disappointment” at not being named in Newcastle United’s 25-man Premier League squad for the remainder of the season. The tough-tackling, popular Magpies player was one of three squad members chopped from the list by head coach Eddie Howe. Alongside Hayden, Republic of Ireland central defender Ciaran Clark — sent off in the recent friendly win over Al-Ittihad in Jeddah — and Jamal Lewis have also been left out, making them ineligible for the final 17 games of the season. Taking to social media, Hayden said: “I am bitterly disappointed to have not been included in the 25-man squad for the second half of this season due to injury. “It’s been a tough 12 months for me, with injuries massively affecting my availability for the club,” he said. “Now is a time for me to reflect. I’ll be working harder than ever before to come back stronger, like I always do. “I’ll be a supporter like everyone else and l’ll be supporting the lads and the staff as best I can for the rest of the season. “We all want to see the club climb the table as much as possible and I am no exception. Take care, Isaac.” United’s five January transfer window signings — Kieran Trippier, Chris Wood, Bruno Guimaraes, Matt Targett and Dan Burn — have all been named in the squad. Left-back Lewis has been subject to interest from Turkish side Trabzonspor in recent days, having rejected a loan move to Birmingham City in the final hours of the English window; the transfer window in Turkey does not close until Feb. 8. Meanwhile, Brazil international Guimaraes has finally flown into Tyneside to meet his new teammates. The 24-year-old former Lyon midfielder has been away on international duty since signing for Newcastle, making a cameo appearance off the bench in the 4-0 win over new teammate Miguel Almiron’s Paraguay side this week. Guimaraes arrived on Friday, flying in from France, and will train with the rest of the first-team squad this weekend. He is expected to be available for Tuesday night’s Premier League return to action against Everton. Another player who has also returned to the UK is New Zealand striker Wood. There had been fears that the forward could miss the midweek clash against the Toffees due to a COVID-19 outbreak in the New Zealand squad whilst on international duty. However, it’s understood that Wood is fit to return to the United fold.