DUBAI: US-Iraqi beauty mogul Mona Kattan on Tuesday tied the knot with her Dubai-based businessman partner Hassan El-Amin. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The couple celebrated their special day with an intimate party, attended by close friends and family, at Dubai’s luxurious Raffles The Palm hotel. They chose a special date to celebrate their love – Feb. 22, 2022, also known as Twosday. “I really love beautiful and unique dates,” the bride said in a previous interview with Harper’s Bazaar Arabia. A post shared by Mona Kattan (@monakattan) For her wedding, Kattan, who is the sister of entrepreneur and makeup artist Huda Kattan, championed two dresses from Dubai-based label Esposa Couture. The first was a white mermaid body-hugging gown designed by US fashion designer Vera Wang and selected from bridal boutique Esposa Prive. The off-shoulder dress featured a puffy tulle train. A post shared by hassanelamin (@hassanelamin) Her second gown was a custom-made lace dress for her Katb El-Kitab ceremony by Esposa Group’s artistic director Kristie Romanos. Kattan’s longtime friend, celebrity makeup artist Mohammed Hindash, did her soft, yet glamorous look. He opted for nude shades and defined her eyes with his sharp, signature eyeliner. A post shared by Mona Kattan (@monakattan) The entrepreneur shared, with her 2.5 million followers on Instagram, glimpses on her Stories of her wedding preparations. “Artist at work,” she said as she filmed Hindash doing her makeup. Halfway through the ceremony, Kattan opted for a bolder makeup look. “We are doing a quick change. Oh my god, Hindash you are like everything,” she told the artist. Kattan, who is the co-founder of Kayali fragrances, has been documenting her wedding preparations on YouTube. She filmed multiple vlogs including videos of her shopping for her dream gown and her favorite fragrances for her special night. A post shared by Mona Kattan (@monakattan) In her dress shopping video, Kattan spoke about how hard it was for her to pick her dream gown. “As soon as we got engaged, I went wedding dress shopping with my sisters, and they ended up gifting me the most magical Zuhair Murad dress,” she said. “Then I went to Esposa to try on a whole bunch of dresses and found another one I loved.” El-Amin is the head of facultative for the Middle East and Africa at Aon Reinsurance Solutions and relocated to Dubai after studying at Cass Business School in London and gaining a master’s degree.