DUBAI: Arab models Bella Hadid and Imaan Hammam on Monday congratulated parents-to-be Barbadian singer Rihanna and rapper A$AP Rocky after their announcement that they were expecting their first child together. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The couple took a stroll over the weekend in snowy New York to reveal the news. Despite the cold weather, the 33-year-old “Diamonds” singer and fashion mogul showed off her bump in a long open pink coat and ripped jeans as her partner beamed by her side in Harlem, which is A$AP Rocky’s home neighborhood.   In one photo, the pair are seen smiling and holding hands while in another, he kisses her forehead. Rihanna’s bump was well-adorned with a long-jeweled necklace. Photographer Miles Diggs posted on his Instagram account an image with the caption, “SHE IS!” Hammam, who is Moroccan-Egyptian, shared the photos to her Instagram Stories, and said: “Congratulations Ri.” Meanwhile, Palestinian-Dutch model Hadid said: “Congratulations to the holy duo.” British-Pakistani-Indian actress and activist, Jameela Jamil, who also posted the couple’s picture on her Instagram feed, said: “GAH! RIHANNA!!! Best and chicest pregnancy reveal ever! Shout out to @diggzy for always making everyone feel safe. People always look happy in his pics.” A post shared by Jameela Jamil (@jameelajamil) However, a few hours later, Jamil took it upon herself to comfort women who are struggling to get pregnant. “Sending a bit of love to those who are struggling to conceive, etc… who find celebrity pregnancy announcements a little hard personally. You’re not a bad person for feeling sad,” she told her 3.5 million followers. A post shared by Jameela Jamil (@jameelajamil) Other celebrities including Cardi B, Nicki Minaj, Lizzo, JT, BIA, Paris Hilton, Zara Larsson, and Camila Cabello took to social media to express their excitement and to congratulate the stars. Trinidadian rapper Minaj said: “So happy for you mama. Conquered the world already. Given so much. Nothing left to prove. You deserve your own little gift now. Different level of joy that money can’t buy.” American rapper Cardi B said: “OMG!!!! Congrats @badgalriri.”