RIYADH: Saudi-based blogger, influencer, and fashion designer Tamara Al-Gabbani said it was an exciting experience to celebrate the Kingdom’s first Founding Day.
“We get to celebrate this for the first time ever in a country that I love so much,” she told “The Mayman Show.”
Al-Gabbani worked with her stylist Wafa Nassir, and they thought about how they could create or do something that would be true to the country. Her two themes were heritage and history.
“Also (to) be really creative at the same time, we decided to do two looks. I think there’s like nine posts I did in one day, and it included a reel video with lots of pictures. So the first look was a janoub (southern) theme that we went for.
“We even included a very authentic burqa from that area and then we also, I don’t know if you know this, but they wear a yellow scarf. The yellow scarves are for women that are single or unmarried.”   She said that she had learned a lot of interesting information about Saudi culture through her research.
“I think what’s so amazing about it is that we really are now exposed to all the different types of traditional outfits that were worn across the different regions and the stories behind them because now we’re exposed to that.” We get to celebrate this for the first time ever in a country that I love so much. Tamara Al-Gabbani The details about wearing a yellow scarf would not have been possible to know without celebrating Founding Day, she said.
Al-Gabbani said there was a lot of “incredible” talent in Saudi Arabia and that, under the Fashion Commission and the Ministry of Culture, great things could happen for the country’s fashion industry.
“There are 100 brands now, so there are like 100 designers that have been selected to be supported and helped, and I have seen the results of the first year. It’s just beautiful to see all this burgeoning talent really blossom.”
She was also invited to Saudi Arabia’s first fashion show and said it had exceeded her expectations.
“I mean, AlUla in general, it’s just such a beautiful experience in itself to go there and see this. It’s a wonder, I feel like it’s like a wonder of the world.”
Al-Gabbani is also a media personality. She is listed as one of the top 50 influential women in Saudi Arabia and was the face of DKNY, Dolce & Gabbana and was featured in Magrabi’s summer 2018 fashion campaign celebrating female empowerment in the Middle East. She started her career as a television presenter in Dubai and was the host of the Dubai International Film Festival's TV show. > Click here for the podcast 