NEWCASTLE: Kieran Trippier is facing about six weeks on the sidelines after Newcastle United confirmed he fractured his foot during Sunday’s victory over Aston Villa. The Magpies’ stand-in skipper, who was given the armband in the absence of Jamaal Lascelles, was forced to leave the pitch in the 48th minute after a stamp on his left foot. He was immediately sent to Newcastle’s Royal Victoria Infirmary and on Monday the club confirmed the news was not good. “Newcastle United defender Kieran Trippier is set to be sidelined for the club’s upcoming fixtures after fracturing a bone in his foot during Sunday's 1-0 victory over Aston Villa,” the club said. “The 31-year-old scored the game’s only goal at St. James’ Park to help the Magpies to a third successive Premier League win but had to be substituted early in the second half after sustaining a foot injury. “Trippier underwent an X-ray immediately after the game and scans have shown a fracture to the fifth metatarsal bone in his left foot. Everyone at the club wishes Kieran a speedy recovery.” The injury appears likely to keep Trippier out of action for between six and eight weeks, which means he could miss six of the 15 remaining Premier League fixtures. He is certain to be out of action for away games against West Ham and Brentford, a home encounter with Brighton, a visit to Chelsea and a home clash with Crystal Palace. A trip to Tottenham Hotspur on April 2 might also come around too soon. The injury to the 31-year-old England international presents head coach Eddie Howe with a defensive dilemma as his side prepares to head to London this weekend. Javier Manquillo, the obvious replacement for Trippier, also suffered an injury on Sunday as he covered for Matt Targett at left-back. While Targett is expected to return to the side, ankle ligament damage means Manquillo might well miss out. If Manquillo is not passed fit for Saturday’s game at the London Stadium, Sweden international Emil Krafth would most likely step in. Howe had to replace both of his full-backs during the victory over Aston Villa, after switching his central defensive partnership before kick-off. Despite the shuffling of the pack, the Magpies still managed to record their second clean sheet in three games — a remarkable achievement considering that until their victory against Leeds United on Jan. 22 they had only kept one clean sheet all season. Howe was full of praise for his side’s defense, especially in light of the challenges thrown up in terms of injury and, in the case of Lascelles, illness. “I think, looking at it, we were in survival mode a lot earlier than I wanted us to be,” said Howe of Sunday’s match. “I thought Aston Villa played well in the second half. I thought they kept possession well and asked questions. But the back four and midfield five, with Chris (Wood) attached, closed the spaces really well. “From a game-management perspective, we have fixed any problem that was there. However, we are working to get better at it, too. Hopefully that will continue.” After the weekend’s results Newcastle have moved four points clear of the Premier League relegation zone. At the end of the season, three teams will drop down to the English Championship.