RIYADH: Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman awarded on Wednesday the winners of the sixth edition of the King Abdulaziz Camel Festival in Riyadh, handing the Al-Shidad Award to Kuwaiti Dabbous Al-Dabbous, the first non-Saudi person to win the biggest prize of the massively popular festival in the region. The King Abdulaziz Camel Festival is an annual cultural, economic, sports and entertainment festival held in Saudi Arabia under royal patronage. A cavalry show was held in front of the podium, from which the crown prince followed the activities of the ceremony before the winning camels in the competing categories were presented. Fahd bin Hithleen, chairman of the board of directors of the Camel Club, remarked on the close relationship between the establishment of the Saudi state and camels. He praised the support of the Saudi leadership for the festival and noted that a renewed interest in heritage has made camels a popular market in the region. He said that the festival has become an important economic dimension and a focus of interest for the community, pointing to the participation of many businessmen in the festival’s races. He also stressed the importance of disseminating “this ancient cultural heritage,” noting the non-Saudi participation in the current edition of the festival. Dr. Mubarak Al-Suwailem, secretary-general of the International Camel Organization, also praised the steps taken by Saudi Arabia to share its heritage with the world. Al-Suwailem confirmed to Arab News that the organization is moving forward in its cooperation with many international bodies, such as the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, UNESCO, the European and North American Camel Farm Owners Associations, and the Islamic World Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. He pointed out that the organization is also proceeding according to its strategic plan, which includes establishing various international centers and committees to oversee aspects related to the camel sector. He praised the influential role of Saudi Arabia in encouraging scientific research and authorship in the field, enriching the World Library with books and notes on camels and supporting studies, authors and translators. Nafel Al-Subaie, a journalist with online newspaper Sabq who specializes in camel competitions, said that the camel sector is fertile ground for investment and shows “a promising future.” He confirmed that camel competitions are witnessing increased popularity, with the festival becoming a tourist destination, attracting many nationalities around the world.