DUBAI: Valentine’s Day may have been and gone, but US superstar Beyonce recently took to social media to offer her legion of fans a glimpse at her festive look on Feb. 14. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The “Single Ladies” hitmaker marked the holiday in an all-red outfit that consisted of PVC trousers and a matching sweater with a heart cutout at the back from her Adidas x Ivy Park line. She accessorized the look with a cherry-shaped purse, diamond-encrusted heart earrings, and custom heels from Lebanese footwear designer Andrea Wazen. A post shared by (@beyonce) The designer quickly took to her brand’s Instagram to commemorate the moment and said: “The Queen B wearing Andrea Wazen custom-made Dassy red pumps.” The Dassy pumps included a PVC translucent pointy toe, a 12-centimeter stiletto heel, a diagonal strap that double wraps around the ankle, embellished with metallic leather and Swarovski crystals making the shoes shimmery and sparkly. Currently the Dassy pumps are available in multiple heel lengths to suit different occasions and come in white, black, nude, sky blue, and pastel yellow. Beyonce is a longtime fan of Wazen’s creations and has been spotted wearing the London-born designer’s fanciful footwear on a number of occasions. (@andreawazenofficial) Wazen, currently one of the most in-demand footwear designers, launched her namesake label in Beirut in 2013 and has since gone on to grab the attention of world-famous superstars with a client list including US models Kylie Jenner and Hailey Bieber, American singer and actress Jennifer Lopez, and US media personality Addison Rae. Her strappy sandals, leather boots, PVC pumps, and tulle-ruffle slingbacks have been spotted on a broad variety of celebrities. The younger sister of Lebanese fashion influencer Karen, Wazen has always been passionate about sketching and designing. She studied at the Istituto Marangoni in Paris, where she discovered her talent for shoe designing, and was encouraged to move to London to specialize her focus. There she took design courses at the renowned Central Saint Martins arts college. The designer launched her celebrity approved label following jobs with some of the most renowned footwear designers in the world, including Christian Louboutin, and Rupert Sanderson.