LONDON: US President Joe Biden will use his visit to Saudi Arabia to raise the profile of Yemen and build on the truce, the US envoy to Yemen said.
“We don’t just want to extend the truce, we are at a point where we can look toward a truce that leads to a durable cease-fire and a comprehensive and inclusive political talks,” Tim Lenderking said during an interview with CNN.
The two-month truce, which began on April 2, had largely held and was renewed for another two months on June 2.
“I think the Saudis, the United States and the regional partners — if you look at Oman and some of the other countries, they played an instrumental role in getting us to this point, so I think it’s a great moment to be highlighting Yemen among this group on the president’s trip,” he added.  On @CNNi w/@BeckyCNN, #USEnvoyYemen Lenderking said, "The humanitarian situation in Taiz, Yemen's 3rd largest city, is alarming as the Houthis refuse multiple @UN proposals to open up main access roads vital for Yemenis. Houthis must show good faith & work w/the UN." pic.twitter.com/QFcDXJoOCg — U.S. State Dept - Near Eastern Affairs (@StateDept_NEA) July 14, 2022 On Taiz, Lenderking said the humanitarian situation in Yemen’s third largest city was very alarming, with the Iran-backed Houthi militia refusing multiple UN proposals to open up access roads.
“We want to see the Houthis show some good faith and deal with the UN proposals in a positive manner,” he said, adding: “I think if we see this and we see other steps by the parties to continue to adhere, then we can look at extending the truce and aiming for that cease-fire and those political talks.”
Meanwhile, Yemeni Minister of Information Moammar Al-Eryani said UN envoy Hans Grundberg’s recent briefing to the Security Council revealed that the Houthi militia rejected his amended proposal on opening roads in Taiz, and reflected its position on efforts to alleviate human suffering, deescalation, and establish peace.  5-We warn against Houthi exploitation of UN truce for escalation, as it has been feeding on wars and bloodshed, has not shown any real intention for peace, and turned against all the agreements it had concluded. #HouthiContinuesToBesiegeTaiz — معمر الإرياني (@ERYANIM) July 14, 2022 “The Houthis’ rejection of all initiatives to lift Taiz siege and freedom of movement of citizens and goods confirms adoption of starvation and collective punishment, and indifference to deteriorated humanitarian conditions of Yemenis, and to the international community,” he said in a series of tweets.
“The Houthi militia continues to repudiate its commitments and imposes siege on Taiz, despite government concessions to succeed the truce and alleviate suffering of citizens, including in militia’s controlled areas, and opening Hais, Al-Barah, and Al-Dhalea roads,” he added.
Al-Eryani called on the international community to condemn Houthi obstruction of peace, put pressure on the militia, and include them in terrorism lists.