WASHINGTON: The White House on Monday said it believes Russia is turning to Iran to provide it with “hundreds” of unmanned aerial vehicles, including weapons-capable drones, for use in its ongoing invasion of Ukraine.
US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said it was unclear whether Iran had already provided any of the unmanned systems to Russia, but said the US has “information” that indicates Iran is preparing to train Russian forces to use them as soon as this month.
“Our information indicates that the Iranian government is preparing to provide Russia with up to several hundred UAVs, including weapons-capable UAVs on an expedited timeline,” he told reporters Monday.
Sullivan said it was proof the Russia’s overwhelming bombardments in Ukraine, which have led it to consolidate gains in the country’s east in recent weeks, was “coming at a cost to the sustainment of its own weapons.”
Sullivan’s revelation comes on the eve of President Joe Biden’s trip to Israel and Saudi Arabia, where Iran’s nuclear program and malign activities in the region will be a key subject of discussion. Sullivan noted that Iran has provided similar unmanned aerial vehicles to Yemen’s Houthi rebels to attack Saudi Arabia before a cease-fire was reached earlier this year. Inserted suggestion LojienConversation opened. 7 messages. All messages read. Skip to content Using Saudi Research and Publishing Co. Mail with screen readers 2 of 27 Druze DD Storylauncher Inbox Tarek Ali Ahmad AttachmentsFri, 8 Jul, 14:36 (3 days ago) Hi all, Here's the Druze DD storylauncher to be embedded in every single top 5 story for the next 5 days please - and any top stories on other sections - please Mahad Mohamed Fri, 8 Jul, 20:36 (3 days ago) Hi Tarek, Is there an English version of the launcher? Tarek Ali Ahmad Sat, 9 Jul, 11:28 (2 days ago) Thanks for pointing that out Mahad - we are working on getting the English one ASAP Harold Jacinto AttachmentsSat, 9 Jul, 11:32 (2 days ago) Dears, Here's the correct one Tarek Ali Ahmad Attachments Sat, 9 Jul, 11:34 (2 days ago) to Ruaa, Zaynab, me, Mahad, Peter, Arkan, Harold Hi all, Here's the english launcher attached to be embedded in all top 5 stories and main stories in different sections for the rest of the week Thanks Tarek Ali Ahmad Head of Research & Studies | Media Editor London Bureau Arab News launches Research and Studies Unit The voice of a changing region www.arabnews.com M: +44 (0)7918238271 Attachments area Tarek Ali Ahmad Sun, 10 Jul, 13:31 (1 day ago) Hi all, Happy eid! Just a kind reminder please to embed the storylauncher everywhere within the top 5 + main stories Best -- Tarek Ali Ahmad 12:16 (9 hours ago) to me, Mahad, Peter, Ruaa, Zaynab, Arkan, Harold Hi all, Just a reminder please to embed Thanks Tarek Done!Updated!Will do! Enter