DUBAI: While some stars might be spending their summer breaks in the US or Europe, Hollywood actress Lindsay Lohan has chosen to take a trip to a Middle Eastern country, Lebanon. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The “Mean Girls” star, who is based in Dubai, took to Instagram to share pictures from her visit, captioning the post “Lebanon” and adding an emoji of the country’s flag. The short Instagram Reel features pictures of the statue of Our Lady of Lebanon at a church in Harissa, the Saint Charbel statue in Hammana along with shots of the country’s dreamy sunsets and picture-perfect beaches.  A post shared by Lindsay Lohan (@lindsaylohan) Lohan secretly tied the knot with her partner Bader Shammas earlier this month. In a lengthy Instagram post she shared on July 2, the singer and songwriter wrote: “I am the luckiest woman in the world. You found me and knew that I wanted to find happiness and grace, all at the same time. I am stunned that you are my husband. My life and my everything. Every woman should feel like this every day.” The Hollywood star announced her engagement in November, posting a series of snaps that showed off her diamond engagement ring.  A post shared by Lindsay Lohan (@lindsaylohan) Lohan and Shammas were first spotted together at a music festival in Dubai shortly before the pandemic hit in 2020. Lohan is not the only celebrity who has visited a Middle Eastern country recently. Earlier this week, US singer John Legend took to Instagram to show off his trip to Egypt with wife Chrissy Teigen and their children.  A post shared by John Legend (@johnlegend) The family visited Cairo after the singer performed at the Playa beach resort on Egypt’s north coast on July 22. “We went to see the majestic pyramids today. Beautiful!” Legend posted on Instagram, while his wife took to Instagram Stories on Sunday with an image of their young son at the beach, writing: “I really had no idea the beaches of Egypt were this beautiful.”