MINA: Saudi Health Minister Fahad Al-Jalajil has inspected hospitals and other health facilities in Makkah and the holy sites to ensure they are up to standard for the pilgrims. The minister started with a tour of Mina Al-Wadi Hospital where he was briefed on the progress of work and treatment services that will be provided by the hospital to the pilgrims during Hajj. He also toured the hospital’s various departments and listened to a detailed lecture from its director. Mina Al-Wadi Hospital has a total capacity of 160 beds. The emergency department includes 24 beds, with six beds for cardiopulmonary resuscitation, four for suspected cases of respiratory diseases, four for dialysis, 25 for intensive care, and 24 for heat stroke. There are also 15 outpatient clinics in the hospital, with 550 employees from administrative, technical, and medical departments working around the clock. Al-Jalajil then visited the emergency complex in Al-Me’aisem, touring the complex and the exhibition hall, and inspecting the death refrigerators of the complex of the holy sites. This complex is considered a vital facility of the Ministry of Health in Makkah and the holy sites, and provides its services throughout the year, especially during the Hajj season. The minister also visited the Mina Al-Jisr Hospital, where he toured its various departments and clinics, including the heat stroke unit, the cardiopulmonary resuscitation center, and the intensive care department. Al-Jalajil visited the Makkah Area Crisis and Disaster Management Center and was briefed on its plans. The center is a strategic arsenal in the region’s governmental services, enhancing the operations related to managing any health disasters across the Kingdom. The center aims to elevate coordination between relevant departments and was designed with the highest levels of architectural, construction and functional standards. The minister concluded his inspections with a visit to Mina Emergency Hospital and to the health command and control room in Makkah and the holy sites. The Ministry of Health prepared 23 hospitals and 147 health centers for this year’s Hajj season, increasing its capacity to 5,000 beds in Makkah, the holy sites and Madinah. Some 25,000 qualified health practitioners are involved in providing healthcare to the pilgrims.