MINA: Muslims should praise the Almighty and become ambassadors for Islam by always following its precepts on good behavior, said Sheikh Dr. Muhammad bin Abdul Karim Al-Issa, secretary-general of the Muslim World League and member of the Council of Senior Scholars, during the Arafat Day sermon delivered at Namirah Mosque on Friday. Addressing the pilgrims and Muslims around the world, he said good deeds would guarantee happiness in this life and ensure Allah’s rewards in the hereafter. Al-Issa reminded Muslims that the main injunction of Islam was to only worship Allah. “Allah has sent down the divine books and sent prophets and messengers as teachers to their nations, calling (them) to monotheism and singling out Allah in worship. All the prophets told their people to worship Allah, and no one else,” he said in his sermon. Al-Issa, who delivered the Arafat sermon for the first time, emphasized the importance of Islam’s five pillars of faith. Addressing the pilgrims, he said Allah has honored them with the opportunity to perform Hajj this year, and urged them to follow the guidance of Prophet Mohammed when completing their rituals. He also urged Muslims to continue to carry out good deeds and treat others well, including those of other beliefs. “All people, whether Muslims or not, respect those with good manners, for sound conduct is a high human value,” he said. He urged the faithful to distance themselves from actions that can cause disharmony, hatred and division. “Love and compassion should prevail in our dealings, and it is part of our faith that we all together unite,” he said, adding that cooperation can preserve the Muslim community’s cohesion. “This proves the fact that Islam is an all-encompassing spirit that includes goodness to all humanity. Our Prophet has said: ‘The best people are those who are the most beneficial to people.’” He concluded by urging the pilgrims to take advantage of their time at the holy sites to supplicate and seek forgiveness from Allah for their sins.