The Diriyah Gate Development Authority has reinforced its commitment to the mission of investing in the personal growth of the community’s youth through the establishment of a series of STEM training programs. The initiative, “Program Your Passion,” is a STEM-focused community training project in collaboration with DigiPen, the global training institute that seeks to foster and enrich the untapped talent and potential of the local Diriyah youth. DigiPen, founded as a computer simulation and animation company by Claude Comair in 1988 in Vancouver, British Columbia, was the first institution globally to offer a bachelor’s degree in video games programming. The training programs launched by DGDA will be provided to middle and secondary school students across the Diriyah community. Introducing digital skills will help ensure that students are technically proficient, and will have the chance to explore future job opportunities across Saudi Arabia’s thriving digital economy, in line with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 program. The “Program Your Passion” project will have two main development goals: The first will encourage students to develop their skills in developing video games, while the second will ensure they become proficient in new skillsets like animation design, coding, and much more. The programs will be conducted in Arabic with the courses covering training across video games, film and animation production, breakthroughs in the field of science, immersive art experiences, and music and film discovery. As a first step last week the program started the training workshops for 12 Saudi trainers, under the supervision of experts from DigiPen. Ahlam Althunayan, community engagement director at DGDA, highlighted her excitement about the program being introduced across Diriyah schools, saying: “I am delighted to bring this program to the youth of Diriyah, to help nurture them with the skills of tomorrow. We are excited to welcome the world-class programs from DigiPen for the first time to our community. This brings new opportunities for our youth community members. “Diriyah shines because of its people, and right here in the Jewel of the Kingdom we are certain that ‘Program Your Passion’ will harness new opportunities and empower young Saudi talents with digital tools to share their rich culture and heritage with the world.” DGDA is committed to empowering Diriyah’s youth and has been working to implement training programs like these to provide unique opportunities for the local community. Earlier this year, DGDA hosted the launch ceremony of the second Madrasti Codes (My School Codes) competition in the heart of the At-Turaif neighborhood, facing the historic Salwa Palace. In addition, DGDA’s community engagement team also hosts a series of monthly workshops aimed at introducing community-focused initiatives to improve ease of living, and community services across Diriyah.