BALI: Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on Friday on the sidelines of the G20 foreign ministers’ meeting in Bali. The pair discussed ways to strengthen bilateral cooperation, as well as regional and international issues of mutual concern, including security and stability in the Middle East. The meeting was also attended by Essam Al-Thaqafi, the Kingdom’s ambassador to Indonesia, and Abdulrahman Al-Daoud, director general of the foreign minister’s office. In his address to the G-20 meeting, Prince Faisal confirmed Saudi Arabia’s commitment to the group’s efforts to build bridges with regional and international organizations and consolidate the effectiveness of multilateral action. He also praised Indonesia, the current president of the group of wealthy and developing nations, for its slogan: “Let us recover together to recover stronger.”. The world could only be protected from future crises by strengthening ways to reduce tensions, activating dialogue and enhancing global governance, he said.  Good to meet again with Saudi Arabia Foreign Minister Prince Faisal Bin Farhan Al Saud at margins of @g20org. We discussed GCC-EU cooperation, implementation of Gulf Communication and cooperation on energy security and green transition. pic.twitter.com/2oaDMeUyjF — Josep Borrell Fontelles (@JosepBorrellF) July 8, 2022  He added that Saudi Arabia fully supported Indonesia’s presidency of the G-20 and would work with all members of the group for the sake of enhancing global cooperation and enacting initiatives to facilitate growth and sustainable recovery. Meanwhile, Prince Faisal met with EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell on the sidelines of the summit, where they reviewed relations between the Kingdom and the EU and ways to enhance and support them in all areas of cooperation and joint coordination. The two sides also exchanged views on the Iranian nuclear program and developments in negotiations to revive the 2015 nuclear deal in Vienna. Prince Faisal also held separate talks with his Brazilian counterpart Carlos Alberto Franco Franca and his Argentinian counterpart Santiago Cafiero on the sidelines of the G20.