DUBAI: Saudi designer Mohammed Ashi’s Beirut-based label Ashi Studio presented its Fall/Winter 2023 collection on the sidelines of Paris Haute Couture Week on Tuesday. The collection, which was presented at the brand’s second live show in Paris, was titled “Waves.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Presented under the looming vaulted ceilings of the American Cathedral in Paris, the show featured everything from structured and embellished mini dresses to feathered gowns and glittering skirts with long trains. To better represent its “Waves” theme, the label liberally infused the collection with eye-catching ruffles, pleats and crinkled fabrics, in a manner that was eclectic yet understated.   British model Jourdan Dunn was spotted on the front row in a light and airy Ashi Studio ensemble. France-based fashion blogger Veronica Ferraro was also at the event in an all-black, glittering get-up, pulled together with a large bow at the waist. Dubai-based TV host Diala Makki and Russian model Valero Kaufman were also spotted at the presentation. While Ashi Studio was not on the official Paris Haute Couture calendar, other Arab designers are showing as part of the main event, including Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika, as well as designers Zuhair Murad, Ellie Saab and fashion house Madison Rabih Kayrouz. A post shared by GEORGES HOBEIKA (@georgeshobeika) A favorite among celebrities in the Arab world and beyond, Ashi Studio is no stranger to making headlines, and did so most recently when Bollywood star Deepika Padukone wore the brand’s floor-sweeping orange gown at the 75th Cannes Film Festival this year. The actress wore the taffeta gown to the premiere of the French drama film “The Innocent.” A post shared by Kylie Minogue (@kylieminogue) Singer-songwriter Kylie Minogue is another star who has previously flaunted Ashi Studio creations. The “Can’t Get You Out of My Head” hitmaker stepped out in 2021 in an off-the-shoulder leopard print dress with puffed sleeves and a long cape. The dress was from the label’s “Silence in the Mirror” Fall/Winter 2019-2020 couture collection. The year before that, she shared a snap on Instagram wearing an all-white, feather couture jumpsuit from the fashion house during a shoot for her 15th studio album “Disco.” A-listers including Queen Rania, Beyoncé, Sonam Kapoor and Cardi B have also been spotted in the label’s creations.