RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman announced the plans for The Line development at NEOM on Monday. The prince said the design would clarify the internal structure of the multi-layered city and address the problems of traditional flat horizontal cities, achieving harmony between urban development and preservation of nature, according to Saudi Press Agency. Prince Mohammed launched the initial idea and vision of the city that redefines the concept of urban development and what cities of the future should look like in January 2021.  “At NEOM, we strive to be at the forefront of providing new and innovative solutions, and today we are determined to implement the idea of ‘Building to the Top’ through a team led by NEOM and a group of the brightest minds,” the crown prince said. During Monday's announcement, Prince Mohammed said The Line would achieve “ideal living” and address the urgent challenges facing humanity. “NEOM is one of the most important projects of the Saudi Vision 2030 and The Line is an affirmation of our firm commitment to presenting a project to the whole world, NEOM is a place for those who dream of a better tomorrow,” he said. The designs of The Line embody how urban communities will be in the future in an environment free from roads, cars and emissions, he added. The crown prince said the project, which offers a new approach to urban design, would run on 100 percent renewable energy and prioritize people's health.  “The idea of layering city functions vertically, giving people possibility of moving seamlessly in three dimensions to access them is a concept referred to as Zero Gravity Urbanism,” he said. According to the design plan revealed on Monday, The Line will have an outer mirror facade that will provide the structure its unique character and allow even its small footprint to blend with nature, while its interior will be built to create “extraordinary experiences and magical moments,” the crown prince added. The Line will eventually accommodate 9 million residents and will be built on a footprint of 34 square kilometers, which is unheard of when compared to other cities of similar capacity, according to Monday’s statement.  “The Line will be created by a team of world-renowned architects and engineers, led by NEOM, to develop this revolutionary concept for the city of the future,” Prince Mohammed said. The ideal climate within the structure, all year round, will ensure that residents can enjoy surrounding nature while walking around. Residents will also have access to all facilities in The Line within a five-minute walk.