RIYADH: The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia will host the international exhibition of organic products Biofach and its accompanying international conference, which will be held for the first time in Riyadh. The three-day exhibition will be held from Nov. 7-9 at the Riyadh International Convention and Exhibition Center. The official announcement was made by Assistant Undersecretary for Agricultural Affairs at the Ministry of Environment, Water and Agriculture Sulaiman Al-Khateeb, who, along with a Saudi delegation, is taking part in the current Biofach exhibition in Nuremberg, Germany, from July 26-29.   “The exhibition attracts qualitative participation from organic production input companies, organic farms, commercial centers, specialized organic stores, service companies and agencies, specialized associations, local and international organizations concerned with organic agriculture, and import and export companies,” said Al-Khateeb. Through the event, the Kingdom aims to establish a leading position in the field of organic agriculture, promote the role of the ministry globally, support the local organic production sector and empower start-up companies. It is the world’s largest trade fair for organic food and agriculture and a magnet for major investors, distributors, suppliers and solution providers in the organic products industry. The exhibition aims to attract major international companies and experts specializing in organic agriculture from all over the world, raise awareness of the importance of organic agriculture and a sustainable lifestyle and exchange knowledge on the most prominent issues concerning the organic community. Biofach has previously been held in seven countries: the US, Brazil, Thailand, India, China, Japan and Germany. The next edition in November will be accompanied by a conference featuring the participation of 50 speakers, over 2,000 local and international representatives of the most prominent global companies, entrepreneurs, international investors and academics. The event will also highlight innovations in the field of organic products and feature lectures, workshops, franchise competitions and the participation of Saudi families involved in organic production. Those who would like to participate or reserve a space to display their products at Biofach Saudi Arabia can register at the following link: https://www.biofach-saudiarabia.com/.