NEWCASTLE: Newcastle United have confirmed experienced goalscorer Dwight Gayle’s summer exit, with Eddie Howe believing fellow hero of 2017, Matt Ritchie, could follow.
Former Crystal Palace frontman Gayle, who was Newcastle’s top-scorer as they won the Championship under Rafa Benitez five years ago, has signed a two-year deal with Stoke City. The 32-year-old player, who was a peripheral figure under Howe and Steve Bruce before him, leaves on a free transfer.
A club statement confirming the exit said: “Dwight Gayle has left Newcastle United to join Championship side Stoke City on a permanent deal.
“The 32-year-old has linked up with ex-Magpie Michael O’Neill’s men, ending his six-year spell at St. James’ Park. Former Dagenham and Redbridge and Peterborough United striker Gayle joined United from Crystal Palace in July 2016 and enjoyed a goal-laden first season on Tyneside, netting 23 times in all competitions to finish as the club’s leading goalscorer as Newcastle won the Championship title in 2016/17.
“After scoring six times in the Premier League the following campaign, the frontman joined West Bromwich Albion on loan for the 2018/19 season and bagged a further 24 goals in a prolific stint at the Hawthorns before returning to Newcastle.
“In all, Gayle made 122 appearances for the Magpies, scoring 34 times, and departs to join a Potters side who finished 14th in the second tier last term. Newcastle United thanks Dwight for his contribution and service to the club, and wishes him well for the future.”
Gayle’s departure leaves Newcastle a little light in the forward areas, with only injury-prone Callum Wilson and goal-shy Chris Wood as options up top.
Howe confirmed to Arab News on the club’s recent pre-season trip to Austria that he would look to sign a Gayle replacement this summer.
Gayle posted a classy message to Newcastle and its fans on his Instagram: “Thank you so much to @nufc and the city itself. I’ve loved my time here and you really have made me and my family so welcome throughout. I wish you all the best in the future and look forward to watching your successes.”
Meanwhile, as attention turns to incomings, head coach Howe has admitted another exit could be close this summer.
Wide man Ritchie has fallen down the pecking order at United since the arrival of the likes of Matt Targett.
And while the veteran has enjoyed his six years on Tyneside, according to Howe, he has desires to move back down to the south coast of England, where his family is based.
“It wasn’t farewell or intentional from my side,” Howe said of Ritchie’s end-of-season appearance at Burnley. “I think it’s well documented my relationship with Matty, we go so far back. The respect for him I have as a person — he’s been incredible for me. Matty’s own personal situation he will have his own thoughts. Mine is to try and keep him but it’s well documented that Matty has been away from his family for a long period of time.
“He loves playing for Newcastle and is very passionate about the club. But I think it is unclear what direction we will take this year but from both sides there is a lot of respect.”
Newly promoted AFC Bournemouth are understood to be exploring the possibility of signing Ritchie. He departed the Cherries in 2016 for Newcastle for a fee of around $13.2 million.