RIYADH: The southern and western parts of Saudi Arabia will experience torrential thunderstorms, while dusty winds and storms are predicted for southern parts of Riyadh and the east. The National Center for Meteorology in its forecast on Tuesday said: “Moderate and thundershowers, rains accompanied by active winds is forecasted to hit some parts of Najran, Jazan, Asir and Baha regions, as well as Makkah heights, extending to coastal parts Jeddah, Al-Laith and Qunfudah.” The NCM added that thunderstorms and dusty winds are forecast for the southern parts of Riyadh and eastern regions. Some parts of Riyadh and the east will also witness “extreme temperatures,” it said. Rains have been seen across the wider Gulf Cooperation Council area. In the UAE, the National Centre of Meteorology issued an alert on Tuesday forecasting dust storms over the next 24 hours. Al-Ahsa recorded the highest temperature for the day in Saudi Arabia, with the maximum recorded at 46 C, followed by Dammam, Hafr Al-Batin, and Al-Kharj, recording 45 C each. Riyadh, Wadi Al-Dawasir, and Rafha recorded 44 C each, while Buraidah, Dawadmi, and Al-Majmaah recorded 43 C; Madinah, Makkah, Hail, Arar, Sharurah, and AlUla all recorded 41 C, and Jeddah and Qunfudhah 40 C. The Saudi capital is bracing for another shift in weather, with the maximum temperature forecast of 40-41 C this weekend and rain forecast for next Sunday. This came as a relief for residents, after Riyadh experienced temperatures up to 47 C last week. Abha and Al-Baha in the west recorded the lowest mercury levels in the Kingdom, with maximum temperature recorded at 25 C each, followed by Taif and Najran recording 34 C each, Al-Wajh 35 C, Jazan 36 C, Turaif and Al-Qiriyat 38 C each, and Tabuk, Yanbu, and Bisha 39 C each. The NCM daily report said surface wind movement in the Red Sea will be southerly to southwesterly at a speed of 10-25 km per hour in the northern part, and at speeds of 15-30 km per hour in the central and southern parts, reaching up to 45 km per hour, with thunderstorms expected. The surface wind movement in the Arabian Gulf will be northwesterly to northerly, gradually turning northeasterly at speeds of 15-30 km per hour in northern parts and northeasterly to easterly, gradually turning southeasterly at 20-40 km per hour in southern parts.