DUBAI: Dutch Palestinian supermodel Bella Hadid was all smiles as she stepped out to support half-sister Alana Hadid at her fashion line La Detresse’s summer collection soiree in New York on Thursday. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Hadid went the extra mile wearing a La Detresse ensemble to the celebration. The 25-year-old model was seen in an eye-catching acid-wash tee and matching biking shorts, paired with a leather snakeskin jacket. Thigh-high boots, stacked necklaces and gold hoop earrings completed the look. Alana wore a similar co-ord outfit, donning an oversized tee with cowboy boots. The siblings were joined by Emily Perlstein, who founded La Detresse with Alana in 2017, as the product of a mutual obsession about creating the perfect denim jacket. Over the years, the duo have produced a line of denim and knitwear in Los Angeles.  A post shared by Emily Perlstein (@emilyperlstein) Perlstein wore the Mary Turks Shirt Dress from La Detresse’s new Summer Trip collection. “Our intent is to fuse our love of vintage and androgyny with wearability and innovation to deliver you a closet staple on which you can build your wardrobe,” a statement on the La Detresse website said. Other stars spotted at the event included “Euphoria” star Chloe Cherry, beauty entrepreneur Cassadra Grey and Dakota Lohan, Lindsay Lohan’s younger brother. Palestinian Puerto Rican model Maria Alia Al-Sadek was also seen at the event, along with Libyan American journalist Noor Tagouri.   Last month, Bella took to Instagram Stories to spotlight some of the Arab world’s on-screen talents. The catwalk star republished a post shared on the non-profit advocacy organization Institute for Middle East Understanding’s account that shines a light on Palestinian creatives that have been making headlines internationally, including Josie Totah, Michael Karim Malarkey and May Calamawy. Hadid has always been vocal about her support for Palestine and its creatives. She uses her social media accounts to show her support for the diaspora and to raise awareness about military violence toward Palestinians. Last year, she joined demonstrations in New York to protest Israeli attacks on Palestinians living in Gaza. She frequently calls out Instagram for “shadow banning” her Palestine-related posts. “Are we not allowed to be Palestinian on Instagram? This, to me, is bullying,” she previously wrote on Instagram. “I am proud to be Palestinian.”