DUBAI: Legendary Entertainment, the producers of the Academy Award-winning film “Dune” confirmed on Tuesday that the team behind the film will return to Abu Dhabi later this year to shoot the highly anticipated sequel. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The desert of Abu Dhabi will once again feature as the iconic setting of the desert planet Arrakis in Denis Villeneuve’s adaptation of Frank Herbert’s best-selling novel. The action-adventure movie will film at the Liwa desert for over a month later this year.  A post shared by DUNE (@dunemovie)  “Dune has again provided us with an exciting opportunity to associate the emirate with another global movie franchise which will allow us to entice enthusiastic fans and audience members to visit the landscapes which they have seen on screen. In Abu Dhabi, we are fortunate to offer incredible architecture, landscapes and a unique culture that brings magic to the big screen. We hope that audiences around the world will get the chance to discover a whole new world in the Liwa desert,” chairman of the Department of Culture and Tourism - Abu Dhabi and twofour54 Abu Dhabi, Mohamed Khalifa Al-Mubarak, said in a released statement. “We look forward to returning to the majestic sand dunes of Abu Dhabi and bringing Arrakis to life for 'Dune: Part Two,'” Villeneuve added in a statement.  A post shared by DUNE (@dunemovie)  Meanwhile, production on “Dune: Part Two” has begun, as confirmed by a new behind-the-scenes photo shared by the movie’s social media team. The team shared an image of the film’s clapperboard inscribed with the quote, “Long live the fighters!” Filmmaker Villeneuve returns in the director’s chair for the sequel alongside his co-writers Eric Roth and Jon Spaiths, who penned the script. Timothée Chalamet returns to lead the cast as Paul Atreides. The Oscar nominee will once again be joined by Zendaya, Rebecca Ferguson, and Javier Bardem, among others. New cast additions include “Elvis” star Austin Butler, Christopher Walken, Florence Pugh, Léa Seydoux and Souheila Yacoub.