RIYADH: The cities of the Eastern Province and Riyadh region are experiencing extremely hot weather conditions, with Dammam recording the highest temperature at 48 C, while cloudy skies and thunderstorms provide much-needed relief in the south and parts of the west of Saudi Arabia from scorching sunshine. The National Center of Meteorology, issuing its daily forecast report for the weather in the Kingdom, tweeted on Monday: “The sky will be partly cloudy, accompanied by thunderstorms in Jazan, Asir, and Baha regions, extending to Makkah heights, as the chance of forming thunderstorms will continue on Najran region and southern parts of Eastern Region including the Empty Quarter, accompanied by active winds, while the dusty winds will continue to be active in some parts of Eastern Province and Riyadh region.” The coastal part, extending from Al-Laith region to Jazan region, will also witness active surface dusty winds, it added. Dammam’s 48 C was followed by Al-Ahsa, recording 47 C, Hafr Al-Batin at 46 C, Madinah, Riyadh, Wadi Al-Dawasir, and Al-Kharj recording 45 C each, while Makkah, Sharurah, Rafha recorded 43 C each. Searing heat in Riyadh had made the day uncomfortable for residents, with some people even reporting that car tyres burst on the roads. One Arab News journalist, while driving to the office, saw at least five cars on the road with burst tyres. People are beating the heat by staying hydrated, as fluid lost through sweat in hot temperatures is a key cause of dehydration. The maximum temperature forecast for Riyadh is 47 C on Tuesday, with the high temperatures continuing until the weekend, while the Eastern Province may experience temperatures as high as 50 C. Al-Baha in the west recorded the lowest mercury level, with a maximum temperature recorded of 26 C, followed by Abha recording 30 C, Taif 33 C, Al-Wajh 33 C, and Jazan and Turaif 38 C each. Jeddah, Tabuk, Bisha, and Al-Qiriyat recorded 39 C each. Surface wind movement in the Red Sea will be northwesterly to westerly at speeds of 20-40 kilometers per hour in northern and central parts, and southwesterly to westerly, gradually turning northwesterly at speeds of 20-40 kilometers per hour in southern parts, while the surface wind movement in the Arabian Gulf will be northwesterly to westerly, gradually turning northeasterly at speeds of 15-30 kilometers per hour in the northern part, and southerly to southeasterly in the southern part at speeds of 16-32 kilometers per hour.