DUBAI: Lebanese fashion designer Elie Saab blew away attendees at the Paris Haute Couture Week on Wednesday as he debuted an array of dazzling menswear pieces among his signature lineup of red carpet-ready dresses for women. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “People who come to us for this type of style, they want to be spectacular — it’s the same for men and women,” Saab said in an interview with Reuters after the show. “We have a lot of demand from clients, but this is the first time we’ve shown it on the runway.”   The Beirut couturier strutted out eight men’s looks on the heels of the wide-skirted dress that opened the collection, entitled “The Beginning of Twilight.” Featuring mostly black creations, multi-colored feathers adorned velvet fabrics, creating playful-yet-sleek looks. Dramatic coats and capes in black and gold were a highlight, unfortunately drowning out the fabulous women’s collection. For women, the Autumn-Winter collection turned more delicate and dreamy. Staying within the twilight theme, there were sheer, fitted dresses dripping with lace and glittering beadwork, while long, floor-sweeping ballgowns had puffs of ostrich feathers augmenting the shoulders. Embellishments ran down to the fingertips, applied to sheer, skin-colored gloves.  A post shared by ELIE SAAB (@eliesaabworld) Spotted at the haute couture show was American model and entrepreneur Olivia Palermo in a lime green Elie Saab creation, featuring an embellished jacket and lace top, paired with grey tweed pants and orange pumps. Also at the show was actress Kate Beckinsale, who showed up in a striking purple mini dress. The star was in London earlier this week where she was named Best Actress for her performance in “Jolt” at the National Film Awards. Also in attendance were Sabrina Elba, Law Roach and Jessica Azar.  A post shared by Sarah Nearis (@sarahnearisstyle) Presenting at the Paris Haute Couture Week alongside Saab was fellow Lebanese designer Zuhair Murad. His Fall-Winter 2023 show was titled “Les Arts Divinatoires.” Vivid colors and bold accents were the highlight of the show, attended by fashion bloggers and influencers including Veronica Ferraro, Mary Leest, Maja Malnar and Steph Adams.  A post shared by Numéro Netherlands (@numero_netherlands) American actress Kelly Rutherford and “The Bachelor” star Tayshia Adams were also spotted at the show.