DUBAI: Italian Moroccan model Malika El-Maslouhi has taken on a starring role in French jewelry label Messika’s latest campaign, which is dedicated to the brand’s new Egypt-inspired offering. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The new Akh-Ba-Ka set, which was designed by Valérie Messika and is inspired by Ancient Egypt, is part of the brand’s new jewelry collection titled “Beyond the Light.” A post shared by Messika Paris (@messikajewelry) In the campaign images, El-Maslouhi shows off a necklace made of white gold with 15 diamonds totaling 71 carats. This entire set is composed of a pair of asymmetrical earrings and a transformable ring that can be worn three different ways. “I am proud to unveil the first opus of my new high jewelry collection, ‘Beyond the Light.’ An ode to the fascinating and mysterious Ancient Egypt. I have imagined it as a magical odyssey evoking passion, audacity and excellence,” Messika said on Instagram. “Special to my heart, Akh-Ba-Ka, (the) masterpiece of the collection, boasts a constellation of 15 exceptional diamonds cut from the same 110-carat rough stone. Big thanks to my brother @ilanmessika for giving me the opportunity to work with this exceptional stone,” the designer added, referring to Ilan Messika. It is not the first time the jewelry label has paid tribute to the Middle East. In April, Messika launched its first-ever Ramadan campaign titled “Lailat Messika” in collaboration with six well-known creatives from the region. The “Lailat Messika” campaign was lensed by award-winning Emirati director Abdulla Al-Kaabi and Tunisian photographer Moez Achour. The campaign video starred Saudi actress Mila Al-Zahrani, Emirati singer Almas, Bahraini journalist Nada Al-Shaibani, Saudi chef Sama Jaad, Qatari artist Alftoon Al-Janahi and Kuwaiti actress Eman Al-Hussaini, who all sit around a table enjoying each other’s company during suhoor while decked out in Messika jewels in the clip. As for El-Maslouhi, the model is no stranger to the limelight. In addition to gracing the runways of storied fashion houses that most models can only dream of — her portfolio includes Dior, Chanel, Valentino and Jacquemus, among others — the fashion star has also appeared in international campaigns for the likes of Off-White, Calvin Klein and Lanvin. Besides being a catwalk fixture, El-Maslouhi has quite a few magazine spreads under her belt, including Vogue, Russia British Vogue and Dazed Magazine.