CAIRO: Egypt’s Planning and Economic Development Minister Hala Al-Saeed met Bahrain’s Minister of Sustainable Development Nour bint Ali Al-Khulaif at the UN’s headquarters in New York, where they discussed ways to cooperate. Al-Saeed is representing Egypt at the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development 2022, which is being held under the theme of “Building Back After the Pandemic: Work, Health, and Well-being.” She praised Egyptian-Bahraini relations at the beginning of their meeting, saying they were characterized by their growth, especially in light of the constant interest in these relations by the two countries’ political leadership. She referred to the ministry’s role and the most important matters it undertook, pointing to Egypt's Vision 2030 which was launched in 2016 in line with the Sustainable Development Goals. She said the update of that vision had been completed and would be launched soon, stressing the importance of treating it as a living document that always needed to be updated and for any local, regional, or international variables to be included. She said the ministry was working on developing medium-term and annual plans, and that there was an integrated system for preparing and following up on the investment plan linking Egypt's projects with the Sustainable Development Goals and the government’s action plan. She said Egypt had a database for all its investment projects, which enabled follow-ups and the extent to which these projects achieved the Sustainable Development Goals. Al-Khulaif affirmed the depth of the historical relations between the two countries, noting the continued development of bilateral relations in various fields. They agreed on the importance of exchanging experiences, that Egyptian-Bahraini relations represented a model for Arab relations, and that the economic and investment cooperation between the two countries was witnessing a remarkable growth that had created many opportunities in promising sectors to enhance this cooperation. They stressed the importance of benefiting from these relations to achieve the interests and aspirations of the two brotherly peoples.