DUBAI: The first two episodes of season four of HBO’s mind-bending dystopian sci-fi show “Westworld” test the viewer’s patience like never before. And that’s saying something for this labyrinthine tale of humanoid robots created to indulge the whims (all the whims) of rich human visitors to themed amusement parks, who eventually rise against their bosses/captors and infiltrate the real world. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Throughout its first three seasons, the show’s twisting, time-jumping narrative — which includes multiple versions of the same characters — has demanded serious focus from its viewers; a tactic that isn’t always successful for TV shows. On the whole, though, “Westworld” has rewarded that focus in unexpected, thoughtful and entertaining ways.   But at the start of season four, it’s fair to say that even the hardest of hardcore fans will be pushed to claim this is great television. The plot has slowed to glacier pace as we’re brought up to speed with what’s happened in the seven years (in TV time) since the season three finale saw Caleb (Aaron Paul) — a lower-class human — and android Maeve (Thandiwe Newton) basically bring about the collapse of society by revealing how it wasn’t just robots that the wealthy had been mistreating all these years. So, there’s very little action, but a lot of talk, through which we learn that Charlotte (Tessa Thompson) — who’s actually a rogue copy of Dolores, the android who sparked the initial revolution in the theme park — is well on the way to initiating a plan that will enable her to take control of, and eradicate, mankind. The show still looks amazing, equal to any blockbuster movie (it sounds amazing too — the soundtrack is impeccable as usual). And the performances remain of ridiculously high quality throughout the sprawling ensemble cast. It’s doubtful there’s another show currently on air with so many actors at the top of their game. But these first two hours are far from compelling. Thankfully though, the season proves to be worth watching beyond that point. By episode three, showrunners Jonathan Nolan and Lisa Joy start to up the pace and increase the jeopardy once again. And by the end of episode four, we’ve had an unexpected twist (and another timeline added), thrilling fight scenes, gruesome creepy-crawly action and enough edge-of-the-seat moments to suggest that, far from losing its mojo, “Westworld” might be about to deliver its strongest season yet. Just stick with it for now.