The Diriyah Gate Development Authority has highlighted its commitment to the training and development of its employees. On the occasion of World Youth Skills Day, Hessa Alhagbani, human capital development specialist at DGDA, said: “We consider our employees to be a key pillar in achieving our vision, which is to celebrate Diriyah, as the home of Saudi of culture, knowledge, commerce, hospitality and entertainment.” She added: “To maximize our people’s potential, we strive to provide them with all the tools necessary for their professional success within the Diriyah family. We are doing this through the implementation of our Human Capital Development Strategy, which aims to discover, develop, transform, and energize the talent in our organization.” As a part of DGDA’s human capital development strategy, the authority has implemented eight unique opportunities for employee training and development. The Diriyah graduate development program offers a one-year program to attract and retain the brightest local Diriyah talents to help DGDA’s team deliver the Diriyah vision. The program includes on-the-job training within several divisions across the authority, as well as intensive classroom training. The foundational training program offers a set of yearly soft skills training courses that are designed to enhance and enrich the core behavioral competencies required across DGDA and the business world. This relates to the technical training program, which sets out a series of specialized training courses designed to enhance the technical competencies required within a specific role or function at the authority. This program is conducted in partnership with globally renowned educational institutions. Alongside this, DGDA offers its coaching program, which gives employees on-the-job professional sessions to improve self-awareness, which is delivered in collaboration with leading coaching schools. The authority also offers a certification program, which provides a route for employees to obtain professional certifications and international accreditations to give them a competitive edge in their areas of expertise and ensure that Diriyah maintains international best practices. The employee learning expansion program gives DGDA’s employees the opportunity to pursue their master’s or bachelor’s degrees, while the language training program offers DGDA staff Arabic or English lessons to bridge cultures and strengthen the bonds between co-workers. The DGDA’s care to share program offers employees with particular areas of expertise the opportunity to deliver courses within the authority. Through these initiatives, the authority seeks to underline the importance of equipping its employees with the best possible skills to build, broaden and brighten their professional futures and ensure that they take their place as those who made the Diriyah vision a reality. 