MINA: Saudi Red Crescent Authority volunteers have provided numerous services and have many responsibilities toward the pilgrims of Makkah during the Hajj season. They are assigned many roles and tasks, including the provision of ambulatory, awareness and advisory services, from the arrival of pilgrims to Makkah until their departure after performing their rituals in peace and comfort. Many volunteers highlighted their sense of pride in the efforts and services they provide for the guests of God, seen in diverse scenes in every corner of Makkah and the holy sites, the Saudi Press Agency reported. Saudi Red Crescent volunteers at the Grand Mosque in Makkah, Abdulaziz bin Akil and Abdullah bin Jentih, said that they performed their duties faithfully along with colleagues working in other sectors of the pilgrimage. This allowed them to truthfully, mercifully and compassionately help the elderly, the disabled and the sick, who came in response to God’s calling, seeking His forgiveness, mercy and acceptance. Ambulance trainer, Ouhoud Al-Maliki, and her colleagues, Fahima Sindabi, Maha Al-Khalidi and Shoumoukh Al-Mouwaled, were happy to express their feelings of happiness and satisfaction for providing the pilgrims with ambulatory services. They also contributed to raising awareness about the need to abide by preventive measures when on Mount Arafat and while performing other rituals. They encouraged pilgrims to avoid heat stress — resulting from sun exposure, heat and jostling — while performing their pilgrimage. This was achieved by getting plenty of rest, drinking liquids and using bright solar umbrellas, they said. People in charge of serving the pilgrims, including volunteers in the Saudi Red Crescent teams, said that they had many memories of humanitarian services, kept between them and God in the hope that He would reward them. They strove to carry out their tasks to serve pilgrims and help them complete their pilgrimage whenever they had the opportunity, they said.