LONDON: LIV Golf has announced the field for its third event of the season, the Invitational Bedminster from July 29 to 31 at the Trump club, with an array of the world’s foremost players set to tee off. The field includes the debut of world number 32 Paul Casey, a 21-time winner as a pro who has represented Europe in five Ryder Cup team competitions. The English standout has annually performed among the globe’s best, having been ranked as high as number three in the world. Casey joins a Bedminster field that will showcase 10 major champions with a combined 20 majors won, four former world number one players and nearly half of its competitors currently ranked in the top 100. The global field represents 12 different countries, features 16 players with 10 or more professional wins and includes future stars of the game who have earned NCAA National Championships and US Amateur Championships among their accomplishments. Players will compete in golf’s most exciting new format for $25 million and the chance to become LIV Golf’s third individual and team champions and earn points toward the season-long individual competition. Those who have confirmed include Ian Poulter, Dustin Johnson, Bryson DeChambeau, Lee Westwood and Lee Kopek. “It’s been an historic two months for LIV Golf as we’ve established a new era for the sport that delivers unique energy, camaraderie, and competition. In just six rounds of live action, we have created a golf environment that has captured the world’s attention and attracted young, passionate fans around the globe,” said Greg Norman, CEO and commissioner of LIV Golf. “We are excited to take another giant leap forward at the beautiful Trump National Golf Club Bedminster where our players are eager to tee off in pursuit of the third individual and team titles of the season.” The 48-man field will play across 12 teams of four players each. Teams will be announced in the days leading up to the tournament start. The LIV Golf Invitational Bedminster offers opportunities for golfers from around the world including the Asian Tour, DP World Tour, PGA Tour, Sunshine Tour, PGA Tour of Australasia and Japan Golf Tour, as well as leading players from The International Series, which launched in Thailand in March, and top finishers from the LIV Golf Invitational Series. The tour will continue to reward players that compete and perform well in LIV events, with a broad spectrum of exemption categories designed to ensure it delivers new opportunities for international golfers, as well as pathways for amateurs and the next generation of leading players, into elite professional golf. South African Branden Grace of Stinger GC finished at 13 under par to secure the individual trophy at the LIV Golf Invitational Portland at Pumpkin Ridge Golf Club, while 4 Aces GC captain Johnson and his new all-American lineup of Talor Gooch, Pat Perez and Patrick Reed took the team trophy in the first LIV Golf event held in the US. South Africans have now won the first two LIV Golf events, as former Masters champion Charl Schwartzel earned first prize in the individual competition at the inaugural LIV Golf Invitational London at Centurion Club. Stinger GC, Schwartzel’s team captained by major champion Louis Oosthuizen, took the team honors in London with fellow South Africans and teammates Hennie du Plessis and Grace finishing second and third, respectively. Grace and Schwartzel are now 1-2 in LIV Golf’s season-long individual points standings. The LIV Golf Invitational Series launched June 9 to a worldwide audience showcasing its new, innovative format with more action, shotgun starts and no cut.