RIYADH: Gamers8 announced on Monday that Razer is to be the gaming gear partner of this summer’s showpiece in Riyadh. Organized by the Saudi Esports Federation, the eight-week global contest takes place in a purpose-built venue at Riyadh Boulevard City from Thursday, July 14, with the added attraction of a series of festivals and concerts. Razer, the world’s leading lifestyle brand for gamers, will have its products showcased during the esports competition and its logo on the official broadcast. The company has created a unique Gamers8 x Razer collection to be sold exclusively on site during the event. Items from its signature collection will also be available for purchase. The Saudi federation and Razer will also organize raffles for Gamers8 attendees and fans on social media to win some exclusive gaming gear. Omar Batterjee, head of Communications, Marketing and Partnerships at the federation, said: “We are delighted to welcome Razer on board as gaming gear partner and thank them for pledging their support to the esports and gaming sector in Saudi Arabia.” “Gamers8 has a mission to blur the lines between what’s physical and what’s virtual, and the triple-headed snake trademark of Razer, one of the most recognized logos in the gaming world, is a great addition to the event. We know fans will be as excited as we are with this partnership.” Gamers8 will focus on four main pillars: Professional esports, festivals, music, and “The Next World Forum,” a gathering that will bring together sector leaders and experts from around the world. Gamers8 will see teams competing across Rocket League, Dota 2, Fortnite, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege, and PUBG MOBILE, with a $15 million prize pool on offer. Rocket League, running from Thursday, July 14 until Sunday, July 17, begins the esports action. Gamers8 tournaments will be broadcast live on the event channels in more than eight different languages. In addition, big-name international artists will be appearing at Gamers8 concerts alongside numerous local and regional talents each weekend throughout the event. Amr Diab, J Balvin, Sebastian Ingrosso, Salvatore Ganacci and DJ Elfuego start musical proceedings at the NXT LVL music venue on opening night.