DUBAI: Arab models are making a mark on runways at Paris Haute Couture Week. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle French Algerian rising talent Loli Bahia, Italian Moroccan catwalk star Malika El-Maslouhi, and British Moroccan model Nora Attal walked the runway for Chanel’s show this week. The creative director, Virginie Viard, opted for a low-key rendition of haute couture for the French fashion house’s fall-winter runway show on Tuesday, sending out a mix of long, full-skirted dresses and tweed ensembles with slightly relaxed fits. The label took to a horse arena on the outskirts of Paris, building a set that played with optical effects, with geometric patterns running at a slant while large silver globes hung from the ceiling.  A post shared by @lolibahiaa Wavy-haired Bahia opened the show in an office-ready set lime-green skirt and jacket kicking off the fashion lineup. It was not the first time the 19-year-old model had worked with Chanel. In May, she opened Chanel’s Grand Prix-inspired resort 2023 show in Monte Carlo, Monaco. In June, Bahia landed her first-ever campaign for the storied luxury maison. She was featured in Chanel’s Metiers d’Art spring 2022 campaign. During the haute couture show, Bahia’s fellow Arab model El-Maslouhi walked down the catwalk in a black multi-layered ensemble that was embroidered at the chest area with a subtly ruffled skirt.  A post shared by MALIKA (@malika.elmaslouhi) El-Maslouhi’s friend, Attal, wore a pink and white embellished pencil dress on the runway. Low heels and floppy hats added to the casual flavor of the lineup, shimmery embellishments kept to a minimum.  A post shared by Nora Maria Attal (@noraattal) Closing the show, even the traditional bride in an all-white wedding dress looked relaxed, her hands thrust in front pockets. A simple white bow was placed on her head, with the tails of the ribbon left streaming down behind. Another Arab model making headlines at the fashion week was Amira Al-Zuhair from Saudi Arabia.  A post shared by Amira Al Zuhair (@amiraalzuhair) This week, she walked the runway for Rome-based brand Giambattista Valli, Italian fashion house Giorgio Armani, and Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika. One of the most iconic looks for Arab models this week was Bella Hadid’s outfit for the Balenciaga show. The US Dutch Palestinian supermodel wore a green minidress with a train of structured floor-length fabric. She walked in the star-studded Balenciaga show along with A-list celebrities including Kim Kardashian, British singer Dua Lipa, English model Naomi Campbell, and American Australian actress Nicole Kidman.