LONDON: The ABB FIA Formula E World Championship enters its final stages with four racers pulling away from the pack in the Drivers’ World Championship standings and only four races remaining across two double-header weekends. The 2022 SABIC London E-Prix is the first of those two weekends, with Rounds 13 and 14 taking place on Saturday and Sunday at the ExCeL London event venue in the heart of the historic Docklands in the east of London. Formula E made its first trip to ExCeL London last season, and both races were won by British drivers, with Jake Dennis and Mahindra Racing’s former driver Alex Lynn making home advantage count. This weekend sees full capacity grandstands open to the public for the first time for a Formula E race at ExCeL London, and fans could potentially witness any of the top four drivers take the lead, or see their title chances take a big hit before Season 8 concludes in Seoul on Aug. 13 and 14. Last time out in New York City, Mercedes-EQ’s Stoffel Vandoorne regained the advantage at the top of the Drivers’ World Championship after a mixed set of results across two hotly contested rounds. The Belgian turned an 11-point deficit into an 11-point advantage over ROKiT Venturi Racing driver Edoardo Mortara. The Swiss’ struggles opened the door for the rest of the top four, including Mitch Evans (Jaguar TCS Racing) and DS TECHEETAH’s Jean-Éric Vergne. That top four are still split by fewer points than are on offer in any single Formula E round, and with the two races in London followed by a double-header in Seoul still to come, the lead could still change hands several times. The Teams’ World Championship is equally close-fought, with Mercedes-EQ pulling 10 points clear of second-placed ROKiT Venturi Racing post-New York. DS TECHEETAH managed to draw level on points in joint second after Antonio Felix da Costa steered the team to a maximum in Round 12. On Wednesday, July 27, SABIC was announced as a new Principal Partner of Formula E which includes title sponsorship of the 2022 SABIC London E-Prix.