LONDON: Netflix launched a series of free guided walking tours in London, Paris and Madrid inspired by popular Netflix shows, including popular titles across the Middle East such as “The Crown,” “Bridgerton,” “La Casa de Papel,” “Emily in Paris” and many more. Taking place for one week between July 11-17, the guided walking tours will take participants to the filming locations of their favorite Netflix shows while recounting historical facts and cultural trivia about the European cities. Highly popular in the Middle East, the Netflix titles are likely to entice fans from Saudi Arabia and the Arab region to take part in the walking tours and see their much-loved shows come to life.   According to Netflix statistics, shows created and filmed in London have proved tremendously popular in the Arab World, with “Bridgerton” featured in Saudi Arabia’s Top 10 Netflix series for several weeks in a row. In partnership with SANDEMANs NEW Europe Tours, the Netflix tour in London sets off in St. James’s Park across from Buckingham Palace, around which titles like “The Crown” and “Bridgerton” were set. While guides explain the significance of royal palaces and houses around St. James’s Park, the Changing of the Guard ceremony can be heard in the background, adequately setting the scene for the beginning of the tour. Equally fluent in history and Netflix shows, tour guides will blend together reality and fiction, directing attention to scenes, locations and details that fans might have missed. Guides will hand out still images from the shows that outline where key scenes in the Netflix titles took place.     While rich with behind-the-scenes information and historical trivia, the two-hour long excursion does not involve trips inside buildings and other shooting locations. That said, numerous historical landmarks are dotted across London’s city center, allowing participants to still access a significant amount of historical trivia through the walking tours. The London tour ends with suggestions for further excursions around London and the UK, where other Netflix titles were filmed, including “After Life,” “Anatomy of a Scandal” and “Enola Holmes.”   Another exciting option for tourists is to head to The Lanesborough hotel near Hyde Park Corner to enjoy a Bridgerton-themed afternoon tea featuring a selection of cakes, finger sandwiches and warm scones. Racking up more than 650 million hours of viewing during the week of its Season Two debut, “Bridgerton” is considered one of Netflix’s most popular shows of all time.  