DUBAI: Syrian-born and Dubai-based designer Rami Al-Ali, who made his debut in the City of Light back in 2012, returned on Thursday to showcase his Autumn-Winter Couture 2023 collection, on the sidelines of the Paris Haute Couture Week. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Featuring structured embellishments, high-impact ruffles and bows, and sleek silhouettes with bold attachments, the designer was in high form presenting pieces for the modern, urban woman. From evening gowns and mini dresses to slim satin pants, the collection was versatile in the best way. A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) While elegance was a running theme, Al-Ali was also not afraid to play with more masculine silhouettes, with tapered, cigarette pants making an appearance more than once. The UAE-based designer last year celebrated the 20th anniversary of his fashion house’s debut. In a tribute to his many travels, which often served as muse to his ethereal collections, Al-Ali tasked 20 photographers in 20 destinations across the world with capturing 20 of his best creations. Here are the six best looks from his collection: 1. Pastel dream A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) The gauzy tulle cape encircling a delicate, beaded dress was the highlight of Al-Ali’s couture presentation. What especially worked was the pairing of delicate pastels with bold structure. 2. Urban look A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) Bringing a touch of the urban and the masculine was this sequined number. The pleated satin pink top with poufy caped sleeves made the perfect foil to the eye-catching tapered black pants. 3. Red carpet ready A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) Al-Ali makes orange look delectable in this mini number, complete with volume-pleated, crystal-beaded sleeves. Don’t be surprised to see this look on a red carpet near you soon. 4. Twirling in organza A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) Violets and lavender made multiple appearances at the show, with this creation especially hitting the mark. The glittering, figure-hugging couture evening dress is softened and made complete with the flowy organza train. 5. Let’s play A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) One of the more playful styles of the collection, the T-length evening dress is a vision to behold. The colorful beads set against a lavender body make for a fun party look, wrapped in the structured tulle train. 6. Regal capes A post shared by Rami Al Ali Official (@ramialaliofficial) The drop-off shoulders combine with the cathedral cape to give this mermaid gown an extremely pleasing effect. Can satin ever go out of style?