LONDON: The true-crime TV space is a remarkably crowded one — it’s fair to say that most streaming services have half a dozen tentpole series at least — but Apple TV+ has managed to grab a little of the limelight with its latest six-part miniseries. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “Black Bird” is based on the memoirs of James Keene, a US prisoner who was offered a reduction in sentence provided he cozied up to a serial killer and uncovered more details of his crimes. Taron Egerton plays Keene on the small screen, dazzling as the charmingly likable (yet nonetheless law-breaking) drug dealing playboy tasked with getting to know Larry Hall, a seemingly simpleminded man played by Paul Walter Hauser. A star-studded supporting cast includes Greg Kinnear and Sepideh Moafi as a pair of law enforcement officials and (the late) Ray Liotta as Keene’s father.   In short, the show is a triumph. Though it starts off slowly — a surprising decision by show developer Dennis Lehane, given the limited episode count — Egerton and Hauser give masterclasses in character development and building suspense. And that’s before they even meet on screen. Egerton gives Keene enough charm to be likable but an edge that suggests more to come from the character by the end of the series (Apple dropped the first two episodes as a premiere). Hauser’s Larry seems a straight-up simpleton, but the actor plants seeds of sinister depths that belie the character’s initial arc. Belgian director Michaël R. Roskam doesn’t rush through the setup but instead allows the story a chance to breathe and gives his talented cast the space to lay the groundwork for episodes to come. There are a lot of lingering stares and loaded pauses, but each feels inherently necessary to ratchet up the tension and establish the stakes that will only increase as the show progresses. True crime can sometimes feel like a slog, wading through overlong backgrounds to get to the nuggets of sensationalism. Even if that is the case with “Black Bird,” the first half of the season suggests it will be worth every second.