DUBAI: A recent Twitter report has revealed the top three trends in Saudi Arabia based on an analysis of billions of tweets from the last two years. Saudi society has in recent years undergone significant changes, such as women being allowed to drive and cinemas opening. The first trend — identity in transit — captures the transformation of the Kingdom and its effect on Saudis’ self-identity. There have been increased conversations on Twitter about women working, driving, general economic progress, and embracing smart cities. For example, conversations around pride concerning smart cities and NEOM grew by 172 percent, while those around chasing the Saudi dream grew by 161 percent. More than 50 percent of all conversations around identity were related to relationships and family, indicating the shifting gender dynamics in the Kingdom. “People on Twitter actively drive the conversations that shape today’s culture, acting as leaders, not followers. Their friends and family are more likely to look to them for recommendations, from where to go and who to listen to, all the way to what to buy,” Walid Issa, head of ad research at Twitter MENA, told Arab News. The second trend focuses on the spending habits of Saudis, with people preferring to spend wisely rather than freely. This approach was evident in their search for online deals and discount codes. Conversations related to offers, competitions, and discounts grew by over 49 percent year-on-year. Saudis are also keen on being more involved in the digital economy, particularly cryptocurrencies, with conversations around these seeing a 595 percent year-on-year increase. Twitter advised brands to be the “financially smart choice for consumers.” Keeping these trends in mind would help brands to “connect with their audiences in a space where they are leaned-in and receptive,” said Issa. The third trend, eco-innovation, saw sustainability and technology merge to become something Saudis cared deeply about, especially when it came to topics of national identity and pride such as smart cities, smart cars, large rail construction, and alternative energy projects. For people in the Kingdom, sustainability is less about the environment and more about Saudi investments in sustainable innovation, according to Twitter. The trend was corroborated by a year-on-year increase in conversations around tech (49 percent), electric cars (55 percent), and smart cities (180 percent). Brands can stand out by embracing sustainability and technology and highlighting the initiatives that have a strong local impact, according to the report. Issa said: “The results (of the report) are a reflection of what is happening in Saudi Arabia and an indication of the national sentiment, which is crucial for brands to gauge regardless of industry.”