 As consul general of France in Jeddah, I have been able to visit a number of governorates, giving me the opportunity to meet French nationals living outside of the city. I was also given the opportunity to listen to them and address their concerns, as well as meet local authorities and explore the possibilities for cooperation between France and Saudi Arabia in the economic, cultural and academic fields. The French community in the western part of the Kingdom consists of about 2,500 expatriates. It is an active community, fully integrated into its environment. In addition, before the pandemic about 50,000 pilgrims from France traveled to the Kingdom each year, including 23,500 who came to perform Hajj, and they should be considered in addition to these permanent residents. I am delighted with the resumption of pilgrimage, even if this year’s edition was staged with a new organization that did not allow us to reach the initially announced quotas. I am also delighted with the quality of the relations between the consulate general and Saudi authorities, which allows us to provide an attentive ear to help solve any problems the French community might encounter. French companies are making their way into Saudi markets and contributing to the implementation of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 development and diversification plan, and to major projects in the country. They are active in sectors such as infrastructure, transport, new technologies, water, health, heritage and tourism. French expertise is world-renowned and we place it at the disposal of our Saudi partners. The Consulate General of France in Jeddah plays an active role in facilitating business contacts between Saudi demand and French supply. It therefore relies on the French partners of the consulate: Business France and the Saudi-French Business Group of Jeddah, also known as CAFSDA. There is also long-running and extensive cultural and academic cooperation between the two countries. Currently, several hundred Saudi students are studying in France, specializing in subjects such as medicine, law, engineering and various branches of science. In the field of heritage, France is participating in seven Franco-Saudi archaeological missions at locations such as Hegra, Al-Bad’, Al-Hima, the Farasan Islands, and the Camel Site in Jouf, with the dual objectives of promoting the Kingdom’s heritage and training Saudi archaeologists. The consulate works hard to showcase French culture as well as the value of Saudi culture. Notable events and projects that it is involved with include: A longstanding partnership with the 21,39 Jeddah Art Festival; the Red Sea International Film Festival and its 48-hour Film Challenge; a range of events and activities focusing on French gastronomy; sending young Saudi artists to the Cite Internationale des Arts artist-in-residence center in Paris; and the staging of high-profile concerts and performances. This year, we are proud to have organized the first World Music Day festival in Saudi Arabia, on June 21, in partnership with the University of Business and Technology in Jeddah. In addition, there are several places in Jeddah where you can learn the French language, including The French International School of Jeddah (which has 1,000 students), and other French-speaking schools (2,000 students). The Alliance Francaise specializes in teaching French to adults and in 2018, 1,200 students were enrolled with it. It has also launched French-language courses at the Makkah Chamber of Commerce and Industry. - Mostafa Mihraje is the consul general of France in Jeddah.