DUBAI: Thousands of people were evacuated from their homes in the UAE as torrential rainfall hit the country’s east and northern region, the Ministry of Interior (MoI) said in a statement. Two days of heavy rain across the north and east of the country left 4,225 needing to be evacuated. Update on the continuing effort of the evacuation , rescue operations and assistance to those affected by the weather situation in a number of regions in the country. #uae_safe pic.twitter.com/CPgvzQ3f7g — وزارة الداخلية (@moiuae) July 28, 2022 Twenty hotels were made ready to accommodate more than 1,885 people, the National Emergency Crisis and Disasters Management Authority (NCEMA) announced on Thursday. The emirates of Sharjah, Ras Al Khaimah and Fujairah were the most affected areas. Videos circulating online showed vehicles almost entirely submerged, particularly in Sharjah, Ras Al-Khaimah and Fujairah. منظومة عمل تكاملية و جهد جماعي تعزيزاً لأمن المجتمع Collective Integrated efforts to enhance the community’s security#الامارات_أمن_وأمان #uae_safe pic.twitter.com/dhCxYWgHuP — وزارة الداخلية (@moiuae) July 28, 2022 The National Centre of Meteorology earlier issued a safety alert warning of a continuity of rainfall and flooding in the valleys over some eastern and mountain areas of the country. NCEMA said it was coordinating with relevant authorities to provide water drawing tanks in the affected areas, and is closely monitoring the weather condition to prevent any potential risks and ensure the public’s safety. Both private and public non-essential employees in Sharjah, Ras Al Khaimah, and Fujairah were urged to work remotely until Friday, the Emirates News Agency reported. Meanwhile in Oman, the Police Aviation and the Royal Air Force of Oman said they evacuated hundreds of people who were trapped in their homes and vehicles after valleys in the Wilayat of Madha, Musandam Governorate overflowed. A shelter was set up in Madha to house those forced to evacuate, the Oman News Agency reported.