RIYADH: Dean of the Diplomatic Corps and Ambassador of Djibouti to Saudi Arabia Dya-Eddine Said Bamakhrama has congratulated King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for overseeing this year’s successful Hajj. “The dean of the Diplomatic Corps congratulates the leadership of the Kingdom on the success of the Hajj 2022 season and appreciates the role of the Kingdom, and its leadership, for the appreciable efforts in organizing and caring,” the envoy tweeted. “Praise be to Allah who has granted the pilgrims the opportunity to perform their full Hajj rites. I pray the Almighty to bring them back to their homes safe and sound, with a forgiven sin and an accepted Hajj, and many thanks and gratitude to King Salman,  Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and the government of Saudi Arabia for the care they have provided to the pilgrims of my country, Djibouti, and to the guests of Allah from all over the world,” the envoy told Arab News. Bamakhrama cited the “excellent services” extended to pilgrims by the Saudi government, private sector and the Saudi people, despite the difficult circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Kingdom on Monday announced the incident-free completion of Hajj rites. Prince Khaled Al-Faisal, governor of the Makkah region and president of the Central Hajj Committee, said that this year’s Hajj season, which welcomed about 1 million pilgrims for the first time after two years of COVID-19 restrictions, has “been a success.” He added: “I am pleased to announce that this year’s pilgrimage has been successful on the security, service and health fronts.” Saudi Health Minister Fahad Al-Jalajel hailed the Hajj health plan, revealing that the pilgrimage was free from outbreaks of illness. Al-Jalajel attributed the success to early preparation and integration among all government sectors, citing the more than 230 health facilities that provided medical services to pilgrims at the holy sites. Leadership from Muslim countries on Tuesday congratulated the Saudi leadership on the success of this year’s Hajj as the annual pilgrimage comes to a close.