DUBAI: In anticipation of Moschino’s latest Fall-Winter Womenswear Couture exhibition, the Italian luxury fashion house unveiled its latest ad campaign last week, featuring none other than Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch model Imaan Hammam. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Orchestrated by creative director Jeremy Scott and shot by photographer Steven Meisel in black and white, the star-studded ad campaign also featured models Iris Law, Mariacarla Boscono, Mila van Eeten, Shalom Harlow and Sora Choi. The Netherlands-raised Hammam, who is a runway regular and has also starred in campaigns for the likes of Versace and sports brand Reebok, took to Instagram on Thursday to unveil shots from Moschino’s vintage-inspired campaign. Styled by Carlyne Cerf de Dudzeele, the campaign features sculpted gowns, exaggerated headpieces — we spotted a candelabra as headgear — and brocaded corsets. In the Instagram post, Hammam is seen wearing a calf-length, full-sleeved piece with a gilded neckline, paired with elaborate earrings.  A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) Hammam also took to her Instagram Stories on Saturday to wish her followers “Eid Mubarak.” The model had previously starred in Moschino’s Spring-Summer campaign earlier this year, alongside Palestinian-American model Gigi Hadid. Last month, Hammam treated her 1.4 million Instagram followers to a snapshot of life in Cairo, sharing a carousel of images and videos of her time in the Egyptian capital and captioning her post “impeccable vibes.” She shared snaps of daily life in the city — a meal at a streetside cafeteria, including what seemed to be the Egyptian staple mulukhiyah, a dish of stewed jute leaves — as well as shots of the nightlife and an artsy video of an elderly man with a shisha pipe.  A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) The catwalk star, who was born to an Egyptian father and Moroccan mother in the Netherlands, has spoken about her heritage before. Hammam is one of the most in-demand models in the industry. The now 25-year-old was scouted in Amsterdam’s Central Station before making her catwalk debut in 2013 by walking in Jean Paul Gaultier’s couture show. Since then, she has appeared on the runway for major fashion houses, such as Fendi, Prada and Moschino, and in international campaigns for DKNY, Celine and Tiffany & Co.