RIYADH: The Saudi Biology National Team have won two prizes at the 33rd World Biology Olympiad in Armenia. In a statement, Amal Al-Hazzaa, acting secretary-general of the King Abdulaziz and his Companions’ Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity, or Mawhiba, said that 237 students from 64 countries took part in the event which ran from July 10 to 18. Yazan Al-Maghrabi, a Jeddah-based student, won a silver medal while Nawaf Al-Mitairi from the Eastern Province was awarded a certificate of merit. Al-Hazzaa thanked the government for supporting students to participate in these international events. Meanwhile, Saudi science students have stunned the competition at the International Chemistry Olympiad 2022, taking four prizes over the week-long event. Students from the King Abdulaziz and His Companions Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity (Mawhiba) picked up a silver medal, two bronze medals and a certificate of recognition at the event, which ran from July 10 to 18. The International Chemistry Olympiad, which is held annually in July, involves a five-hour theory test among other tests. The competition strengthens student connections and cooperation, as well as promoting the exchange of educational and scientific experiences around the world. This was the Kingdom’s 12th participation in the international competition, with its students picking up four prizes after facing competition from 326 students from 84 countries. Prior to competing, the students received 2,700 hours of training from a selection of Saudi and international coaches as part of a collaboration between Mawhiba and the Ministry of Education. Muhammad Al-Hadlaq, a second-grade student from the Riyadh Education Department, was awarded a silver medal. Hussain Shaker Al-Saffar and third-grade student Ali Al-Yousef, both from the Eastern Education Department, received bronze medals. Abdullah Al-Mamtn was presented with a certificate of recognition. Dr. Amal Al-Hazaa, acting Secretary-General of Mawhiba, congratulated everyone who contributed to the achievements, including the students’ families, schools, and teachers — as well as the Kingdom’s leadership — for providing the best means of education that allowed the students to thrive.