DUBAI: Moroccan singer and songwriter Jihane Bougrine this week released her latest single “Rahat El-Bal,” in which the France-raised artist explores the often taboo subject of mental health, bipolar disorder in particular. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle In her new song, which translates to “Peace of Mind,” the star, who is signed to Universal Music, said she wishes to send a message of “hope and optimism” by shining a light on the mental illness. She was inspired to write the song by a family member who was diagnosed with schizophrenia 20 years ago, she told Arab News.  At the time, her family faced myriad challenges. “Here in Morocco, with the traditions and culture, it’s taboo to talk about mental health,” the singer said. “So they used to tell us he was crazy. It was very tough for the family, so I decided to write it and put a name on it to say that people should not be afraid to talk about it.” The song, which already has more than 250,000 views on YouTube alone, is a mix between indie, electro and pop genres. For the music video, the singer collaborated with the French director Julien Fouré, who she said “managed to put my words into an image. A post shared by Jihane Bougrine جيهان بوغرين (@jihanebougrine) “For him, photography and cinema are a way to send important messages to change the world,” Bougrine said. “It is very inspiring and (it was) easy to work with someone like him because he is very talented.” The four-minute clip stars Moroccan actress Mouna R’miki. Bougrine, who has lived in multiple cities around the world, said that traveling made her “wealthy” when it comes to music. “Music is a melting pot. I can have different rhythms in my songs. I don’t have any limits. The sky is my limit,” she explained. The singer added that she hopes her music will offer international audiences a glimpse of life as a Moroccan. “If (my songs) can be a small window to Morocco… and make people understand what we are feeling and what we are living, it would be amazing,” she said.