BANGKOK: The Aramco Team Series presented by the Public Investment Fund is back for 2022, and has brought with it a new format, a new location, prize money of $5 million in total, and the promise of five thrilling global events on the Ladies European Tour. Added to the LET’s 2021 season calendar, the ATS had initially introduced four $1 million tournaments in which many of the biggest and best players in women’s golf battled it out in both a team and individual format. The series last year stopped in London, Sotogrande in southern Spain, New York and Jeddah, inviting more than 30 team captains at each spot to make an American football-style draft pick for their first teammate, before being given another randomly selected Tour pro, then being assigned a local amateur player to complete their fourball. Impressing fans the world over, the events brought with them a new sense of fun and flair, with teams walking to the tee to their choice of music. This found the amateur “Sunday golfers” having to use the strength of their handicap to hole putts vital to their team climbing the leaderboard in the quest for higher prize money for the professionals, which are vital Race to Costa del Sol and Rolex ranking points.  For 2022, the series returns, this time with a brand-new stop in Thailand. Being played at the Thai Country Club from May 12 to 14, the Aramco Team Series Bangkok presented by the PIF will add another $1 million to the season’s prize fund and will tee-off the ATS’ second year on the LET calendar. Here’s what to expect in 2022: A new format set to speed play up and offer even greater buzz Last year saw the Aramco competition become the first team event series of its kind on any professional tour with a new format that uniquely combines individual and team contestants. This year will see the revised format with 26 teams of four (three professionals and a lucky amateur) taking place over the first two days only, with the best two scores per hole counting towards winning $500,000. Running concurrently will be an individual strokeplay event with the third and final round for individuals making the cut in a last day shootout and another separate $500,000 on offer. Local talent and international stars This week sees a trio of Thailand’s top golfing superstars in Bangkok, featuring international star Patty Tavatanakit, ranked at 14 in the world; and former world number one and two-time major winner Ariya Jutanugarn and sister Moriya. They are joined by local 18-year-old talent Chanoknan “April” Angurasaranee the leading female player at the recent Trust Golf Asian Mixed Cup at Siam Country Club and fellow countrywoman Chonlada Chatanun. England’s Charley Hull and breakout US star Kelly Whaley are exciting names to watch alongside a host of LET leading lights. Last year’s Aramco Team Series saw stars such as Georgia Hall, Nelly Korda, Anna Nordqvist, Danielle Kang, Alison Lee and Lexi Thompson all tee it up. Elevated events to bigger global audiences “From the quality of the courses to the build, facilities and the hospitality the Aramco Team Series is elevating the standards across the board,” said Alex Armas, CEO of the LET. “To many of our members, these events feel like majors, and they look forward to playing in them almost as much.” And this year’s broadcast distribution will see the ATS shown in a record 117 territories to an estimated 330 million households, giving more exposure to LET golfers and local stars from each market. Partnerships that support women’s golf and local communities Aramco’s continued partnership for 2022 makes it the biggest backer in women’s golf. The ATS will support up-and-coming women golfers who need extra help to make it to the next level, with partnerships with local charities and golfing associations planned at every stop. For more information, visit aramcoteamseries.com