MANCHESTER: Manchester City have unveiled a permanent statue of Argentine legend Sergio Aguero at Etihad Stadium on the 10th anniversary of the club’s first Premier League title in 44 years and the iconic “93:20” moment. Revealed to fans around the world with a specially commissioned video to mark the occasion, the statue of Aguero completes a trinity alongside Vincent Kompany and David Silva, commemorating a defining era for the club. Situated on the east side of the Etihad Stadium, the large-scale statue of Aguero was created by award-winning sculptor Andy Scott and has been constructed using thousands of welded pieces of galvanized steel. At night, Aguero’s statue and those of Kompany and Silva, will be specially illuminated with blue tinted lighting. Scott, who is one of the most respected sculptors of his generation and is known for his large-scale figurative pieces, created the work entirely from his studio in Philadelphia, before it was transported to Manchester earlier this month. The creation celebrates Aguero’s outstanding contribution to the club’s success, and in particular, his pivotal role in what was arguably one of the greatest moments in sporting history for which he will be eternally remembered by Manchester City fans around the world. Aguero, who was recently inducted into the Premier League Hall of Fame, won 15 major trophies during his time at the club, including five Premier League titles, one FA Cup and a record six League Cups. “Sergio Aguero’s contribution to Manchester City in a defining era for the Club cannot be overstated. He is without doubt one of the greatest players that has ever played the game,” Manchester City’s Chairman Khaldoon Al-Mubarak said. “When our fans think of Sergio, they are immediately drawn to the iconic moment of 93:20 and the goal that secured the club’s first league title in 44 years, but as his record of 260 goals for the club demonstrates, his legacy and impact at Manchester City go far beyond that.” The “93:20” mark stands for the exact moment Aguero scored his famous stoppage time title-winning goal against Queen Park Rangers on the final day of the 2011-12 season. “It is only fitting that Sergio has been recognized with a statue of his own, in celebration and honor of his accomplishments in one of the most important chapters of Manchester City’s rich and long history.” Reflecting on his statue, Aguero said: “Truthfully, it is a very beautiful thing for me, to see myself 10 years ago is very moving. “In those 10 years I was able to win a lot of trophies and was able to help the club become one of the most important in the world. “I am very grateful to the club for making this statue in recognition of my football career in Manchester. It is something very special.” Meanwhile Scott said that it had been an honor to work on a project that means so much to Manchester City fans around the world. “I was under no illusions about how important this was to the club, to the fans, to Sergio himself and I hope that this statue brings joy and happiness to all who see it,” the artist said.