RIYADH: The Future Investment Initiative Foundation will host its first ever regional summit on Friday, in Rosewood London, England, entitled Inclusive Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance in Emerging Markets. The most prominent participants in the event include the FII Chairman and Governor of the Public Investment Fund, Yasser Al-Rumayyan, Egypt’s Minister of Environment, Yasmine Fouad and Blackrock CEO Larry Fink. The summit will bring together international investors, world leaders, thought leaders, policy makers, global CEOs, and chiefs of sustainability to discuss and shape the future of ESG, particularly in emerging markets. “The planet has major problems with climate, with destruction of nature, peace and security. But we also have tremendous resources, including our common humanity,” Executive Director of the FII Institute, Richard Attias said. “We believe that ESG is an important tool to bring us together and channel capital to meet these challenges,” he said. Join us at #FII_ESG, an interactive summit to accelerate #sustainability initiatives in high-growth regions around the world, powered by the FII Institute.#ImpactOnHumanity #ESG https://t.co/zWrtFd34cd — FII Institute (@FIIKSA) May 20, 2022 Using ESG standards to make investment decisions is a global boom, with assets expected to reach $53 trillion, about a third of global assets under management, by 2025, a statement showed. Still, the lack of a framework for the effective implementation of ESG in emerging economies represent a stumbling block for investors. The FII says it will finally have the tool needed to develop sustainable investment strategies in these markets, through its proprietary measurement framework, developed in collaboration with investors, global companies, and FII’s strategic partners. The Foundation works to impact humanity across four focus areas: artificial intelligence, robotics, education, health care, and sustainability. The event is part of a series of events hosted by the Foundation, which will culminate in the sixth edition of the annual FII Forum in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in October.  Noel Quinn, Group Chief Executive Officer of @HSBC_UK, explains why binary positions on #ESG investing are too limiting, reiterating the need for a more #inclusive approach towards ESG at #FII_ESG. pic.twitter.com/wZdt3B3sMA — FII Institute (@FIIKSA) May 20, 2022 The PIF view The PIF understands that being engaged in ESG is the right thing to do, Rania Nashar, head of compliance and governance at the fund, told the conference. PIF companies are announcing emission reductions but it's not only about the destination, it is about the journey, she added. “We approach the ESG through multiple aspects. Through creating platforms, sponsoring events and launching initiatives,” she said.