DUBAI: French-Algerian actress Lyna Khoudri touched down in Cannes for the premieres of her new films, “Novembre” and “Nos Frangins,” bringing her head-turning style to the annual film festival in the process. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle At the “Nos Frangins” photocall earlier this week, the 29-year-old evoked casual-cool wearing a glittering silver shirt and a red miniskirt by Chanel. She chose a similar look at Cedric Jimenez’s “Novembre” photocall, opting for a plain white T-shirt tucked into a pink, fringed tweed skirt also from the Parisian maison. She accessorized the look with layers of pearl necklaces and monochrome Mary Jane pumps.   Khoudri, who is a Chanel brand ambassador — she made her runway debut at the most recent Chanel 2023 cruise show in Monaco — saved her most glamorous get-ups for the red carpet. She attended Rachid Bouchareb’s “Nos Frangins” red carpet premiere, alongside her castmates Samir Guesmi and Reda Kateb, wearing a sheer black embroidered dress from Chanel’s spring 2022 couture collection.   Meanwhile on the red carpet for “Novembre,” Khoudri turned heads in a grey two-piece Chanel ensemble that consisted of a tweed, slightly-unbuttoned jacket and matching loose trousers. Paired with black Mary Janes, the look felt undecidedly unfussy yet glamorous. As an ambassador for the label, the rising star is constantly turning heads on the red carpet in Chanel designs. Case in point, at Tuesday night’s premiere of “L'Innocent,” where the actress showed up wearing a black, embellished halterneck top fresh from the brand’s 2023 resort collection paired with a leather miniskirt and pumps.   “Being supported by Chanel, a house with such experience of the festival, had true meaning,” said “The French Dispatch” actress in a recent video interview. Khoudri, who is currently filming the hotly anticipated “The Three Musketeers” plays a lead role in both “Novembre” and “Nos Frangins.” In “Novembre,” which tells the story of the terrorist attacks in Paris on the night of Nov. 13, 2015, the actress takes on the role of Samia, a charitable young woman who volunteers at a homeless camp. Her flat mate is bankrolling her cousin, one of the terrorists. The latter revisits the tragic death of French-Algerian student Malik Oussekine, who died in police custody in 1986. Khoudri plays the role of his sister. 