DUBAI: Fashion’s latest buzzworthy collaboration brings together Italian powerhouses Fendi and Versace and features some of the world’s top models including Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch star Imaan Hammam. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Dubbed “Fendace,” an amalgamation of Versace and Fendi, the hotly anticipated offering drops on May 12 through a string of worldwide events and pop-ups in cities including Dubai, Kuwait, Los Angeles, Paris and Tokyo. The partnership between the two luxury giants was first revealed in September 2021, on the runway during Milan Fashion Week. “It’s a swap rather than a collaboration and, most of all, it is done out of friendship. It is the beauty of togetherness after time apart and a celebration of women who have inspired me so much,” artistic director of Fendi couture and womenswear Kim Jones said in a press release.   Ahead of the launch, the brands released the Fendace advertising campaign shot by iconic photographer Steven Meisel and playful videos from renowned filmmaker Alec Maxwell. Presented across two dedicated campaign videos, each sees a glamorous and diverse cast of supermodels that includes Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch star Imaan Hammam, Sudan’s Adut Akech and Anok Yai, Ethiopia’s Amar Akway, Poland’s Anja Rubik and China’s Lina Zhang. They are filmed entering the Fendace nightclub wearing fabulous outfits, and navigating the bouncers at the door played by iconic supermodels Naomi Campbell and Kristen McMenamy. “The campaign captures the same sense of friendship and energy we had when we were designing the collection. Kim is a visionary designer and innovator. To me, Fendace will always mean love,” said Donatella Versace, chief creative officer of Versace, in a statement. A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) In the advertorials, Hammam can be seen wearing key pieces from the trendy offering including a brown Fendi monogram hat with Versace written across, worn with a printed silk scarf, a fur coat emblazoned with the double F logo designed by Karl Lagerfeld for Fendi, and a pair of open toe heels embellished with a gold Medusa buckle. The new collection is a marriage of Versace’s flashy more-is-more dressing and Fendi’s signature craftsmanship. Prints, color, logoism and embellishments are punctuated throughout. A post shared by Fendi (@fendi) Styles like the Fendace Peekaboo and Baguette combines the iconic Fendi bags silhouettes with Versace codes while the Fendace La Medusa handbag boasts the Fendi FF logo with Versace’s Medusa silhouette. Pieces like the co-branded Trigreca sneakers are a sartorial testament of the collection’s commitment to create unique designs while staying true to each brand’s DNA. Shoppers will have to visit one of the forthcoming Fendace pop-ups to experience the complete collection. Otherwise, Fendi’s and Versace’s websites will stock a separate selection of goods alongside a unified assortment of Fendace-branded pieces.