LONDON: In the second part of his end of season exclusive interview with Manchester City’s official club channel, Chairman Khaldoon Al-Mubarak has shared his views on the continuing support for the women’s game and age group and City Football Group teams around the globe. He also hinted that there will be more memorials at the Etihad Stadium for some of the club’s legends across its history.   Here are some of the highlights from the interview. On the City women’s team:
I think the women’s game more than ever is coming together, it’s coming strong, its popularity is growing and it confirms our convictions from the very start about why we decided as a group to invest in the women’s game, and how we have continuously backed it because it comes with a belief and conviction that the women’s game will be part of the future of football in a very real way. On supporting all teams at the club:
Well, when we look at this, we don’t look at it as women’s football or men’s football or youth football. We look at this as football. And football as a sport in all its aspects is a growing sport that we see in a very positive way going forward. On acknowledging club legends:
So, over the last couple of years, we have had the statues of Vincent Kompany, David Silva and Sergio Aguero. These three represented the most successful era in the history of this club. But there are other very successful eras and I think remembering Colin Bell, Francis Lee, Mike Summerbee is very important. This club has a great history. These are players that have contributed immensely to this club and have earned — I think the fans can all agree with me on this — they have earned the right to be appreciated forever, eternally with statues. So, we have started the work commissioning a work that I won’t say too much right now until it’s done, but what I will say is these three legends will be properly respected and represented in a work of art that all the fans of this club will be able to see. On the success of City Football Group:
You see every team we are part of, we have strong management, we have good coaching, great coaching, and we have results that reflect the way this group is being managed, not just in Manchester but everywhere around the world and our attention, while yes, with Manchester City being the biggest club in the group it gets a lot of the attention, but I assure you every other club within the group gets the attention it deserves and we are seeing the success both East and West.