RIYADH: A team of specialist surgeons in Saudi Arabia have successfully separated Yemeni conjoined twins Yousef and Yassin after a “complicated” non-stop surgery that lasted 15-hours. “In implementation of directives of King Salman, Saudi Arabia’s specialist surgeons have once again succeeded to separate the Yemeni twins Yousef and Yassin, sons of Mohammed Abdulrahman, during a complicated non-stop 15-hour long operation in which 24 doctors specialized in pediatric neurosurgery, plastic surgery, anesthesia, and nursing led by Dr. Mutasem Al-Zughaibi took part in the operation,” said the King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre (KSRelief) in a statement to Arab News. Dr. Abdullah Al-Rabeeah, supervisor general of KSRelief and head of the medical and surgical team for separation operations, said that the four-phase surgery is among the most complicated. The twins were conjoined in several organs and 24 doctors were involved in the procedure to separate them. Dr Nazar Al-Zughaibi, head of pediatric anesthesia at the King Abdullah Specialized Children’s Hospital (KASCH) at the National Guard Health Affairs in Riyadh, where the conjoined separation was completed, told Arab News: “This was a complex operation due to the twin sharing in the sinuses, cerebral venous and parts of the brain.” Al-Zughaibi added: “The operation was carried out in several stages: Anesthesia, navigation planning, preparing for surgery, skincare, and preparation for brain tissues, bone and reconstruction by plastic surgery.” “The condition of the separated twins is subject to strict care and control, that’s why they are in the ICU being monitored regularly,” the doctor told Arab News. He added that after the separation, Yousef was stable, but Yassin is still in a critical condition because of significant blood loss. Al-Zughaibi pointed out that the operation was complicated as the twins faced some difficulties due to increased bleeding as a result of adhesions, which were dealt with by the team. After the operation, the twins were transferred to the intensive care department. “They still need regular observation, so they will be in the ICU for a few days, followed by reconstruction planning later that takes some time,” he added. He said that the twins previously had two operations, one last October and the other in February, to separate the cerebral veins and brain adhesions and to put skin equipment to help cover wounds after the separation. Earlier, Al-Rabeeah, on behalf of the team, extended appreciation and gratitude to King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for the initiative. He also extended thanks to his fellow medical and surgical team members for their great efforts. The parents of the twins thanked King Salman, wishing him health and happiness. Last July, Saudi doctors separated a Yemeni baby from her parasitic twin, which was their 50th successful operation on conjoined twins. Last week, King Salman ordered that another set of Yemeni conjoined twins, girls named Mawaddah and Rahmah, will be transferred to Riyadh “to conduct medical examinations and check on the possibility” of separation.