JEDDAH: King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) has concluded the Destination Deep Tech program, selecting five international startups from Spain, Poland, France, Egypt and Singapore due to their successful expansion into MENA markets. Destination Deep Tech is an unprecedented Saudi program that aims to create an innovation environment in the Kingdom. Startups are selected for their technological advancements. The five international deep tech startups showed significant growth during the program’s three-month period, during which they established important collaborative partnerships with immediate impact. From France, Pasqal is a European startup and pioneer in the field of quantum computing. It provides comprehensive quantum technology solutions through devices and applications. Insignes-Labs from Poland develops antimicrobials to protect a wide range of materials from defective microbes such as bacteria, algae, fungi and others. Proteinea, a startup from Egypt, serves as a platform for artificial intelligence technology, deep learning models, and biological automation for protein design and production. CeEntek, a Singapore-based company, is developing high-performance concrete to increase the sustainability and efficiency of construction projects. HOPU, from Spain, is developing IoT (Internet of things) devices and sensors based on artificial intelligence technology for applications of the Fourth Industrial Revolution and smart cities. HOPU does so by monitoring air quality, noise and energy consumption. The program provides the selected deep tech startups with the tools they need to expand their projects, including access to world-class research and development facilities at KAUST, exploring opportunities for collaboration with academia and industry, and providing office space in the on-campus Research and Technology City. Dr. Kevin Cullen, KAUST vice president for innovation, said: “KAUST is the deep tech heart of the Saudi economy, and we are very pleased to host these talented international startups at our university and in Saudi Arabia through the KAUST Destination Deep Tech Program, which underscores our commitment to developing a strong ecosystem for entrepreneurship.” Arno Nijhof, director of The Next Web, said: “Through this program, we have leveraged our global and KAUST network to attract leading companies from around the world and provide them with the necessary support so that they could set up offices on campus. We are very proud of the achievements with KAUST in our first group. Together we have managed 80 percent of the companies and supported them to continue to operate successfully from the campus.” The Destination Deep Tech program was launched at KAUST this year in partnership with The Next Web, an international media organization that supports and connects the global technology environment through media, conferences and innovation services.