DUBAI: From models to actresses, Arab designers are putting on a show at the 75th Cannes Film Festival by dressing some of the brightest stars on the red carpet — including at the Women in Cinema event hosted by the Red Sea International Film Festival. Alessandra Ambrosio cut a striking figure as she arrived at the event on Saturday at the Hotel du Cap-Eden-Roc during the annual film festival in France this weekend. The Brazilian supermodel wore a sweeping fairytale-worthy nude mesh gown adorned with organza bougainvillea and silver embellished straps from pioneering Lebanese couturier Elie Saab as she walked the black carpet.   The floral-embellished creation was plucked from Saab’s most recent spring 2022 couture collection, which he showcased in Paris in January at his first physical show in two-years. The 55-look offering was an ode to the Mediterranean and featured full-skirted silhouettes in luxe fabrics like taffeta and tulle bedecked with feathers, rhinestones, beads and sequins. The former Victoria’s Secret angel elevated the look with minimal jewelry in the form of sparkling diamond earrings and a ring. British supermodel Naomi Campbell was also in attendance at the event, which was hosted by the CEO of the Red Sea International Film Festival Mohammed Al-Turki. For her part, Campbell opted for a hot pink gown from Valentino’s Fall-Winter 2022 collection.   After Cannes was cancelled in 2020 and held with strict health protocols in 2021, the red carpet returned in all its glamour last week for the opening ceremony. As usual, Arab couturiers are making their mark on the red carpet as a spectrum of A-listers descend upon La Croisette wearing jaw-dropping creations from designers from the Middle East. Memorably, US actress Larsen Thompson stepped out at the red carpet premiere of “Triangle of Sadness” wearing an elegant black gown from Saudi label Ashi Studio. The off-the-shoulder creation boasted an asymmetric train and a small slit at the front. She paired it with matching black pumps and delicate jewelry. Arab designers aren’t the only ones shining brightly at the film festival. Regional creatives, including Saudi actress Fatima Al-Banawi, Lebanese television presenter Diala Makki and Lebanese reality television star Alice Abdelaziz, are once again stealing the spotlight on the French Riviera with stunning looks.  Enter 