DUBAI: Italian luxury womenswear brand Missoni has tapped Moroccan-Italian model Malika El-Maslouhi to showcase its latest collection of eyewear and watches in the brand’s spring 2022 campaign. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Shot by still life photographer Marco Cerullo, the campaign images depict El-Maslouhi wearing halter-neck dresses and tops printed with Missoni’s signature zigzags, paired with bold glasses and extravagant timepieces, all from the label’s spring 2022 ready-to-wear collection. A post shared by Missoni (@missoni) A house favorite, the 23-year-old hit the catwalk at Missoni’s spring 2022 showcase at Milan Fashion Week in September, showing off a patchwork, halter-neck dress in the Italian fashion house’s go-to knit material, complete with zigzag patterns in varying sober shades. It is this dress that she would end up wearing in the brand’s spring 2022 campaign, months later. “A dream to conclude Milan Fashion Week with the beautiful @missoni show,” she wrote on Instagram in Italian at the time, alongside a carousel of videos and photos from the show. She also appeared in the brand’s most fall 2022 ready-to-wear show in Milan. A post shared by Missoni (@missoni) The ready-to-wear collection marked the first outing as creative director for Alberto Caliri, the longtime right-hand designer of Angela Missoni. The brand’s new campaign is the latest for El-Maslouhi, who has been in high demand since making her runway debut aged 18. US designer Tory Burch tapped the model to showcase her eponymous brand’s pre-fall 2022 collection via a series of campaign images. A post shared by Tory Burch (@toryburch) The catwalk star, who was born in Milan to an Italian mother and a Moroccan father, also featured in the brand’s 2022 beach edit, sporting an array of summer-ready looks in the form of floral maxi skirts, romantic dresses, crochet bucket hats, strappy sandals and printed bikinis. She also features in Jimmy Choo’s new summer campaign alongside fellow model Barbara Palvin. For her part, El-Maslouhi showed off a number of looks, including sunglasses, swimsuits and essential beach accessories from the British fashion brand’s new capsule collection. The model took to Instagram to give her 47,000 Instagram followers a behind-the-scenes look at the shoot. She shared a carousel of images with the caption “summer vibes with Jimmy Choo! Campaign finally out babes! I appreciate everyone that made this beautiful shoot come true.”