AL-MUKALLA: Several artillery shells fired by the Houthis hit Yemen’s city of Taiz on Tuesday, as international mediators, envoys and aid organizations intensified efforts to convince the two sides to renew the UN-brokered truce. Residents and officials in Taiz said several explosions, caused by Houthi artillery, rocked the eastern parts of the city. The attack is the latest in a series of violations of the UN-brokered truce, Yemeni officials said. Abdul Basit Al-Baher, a Yemeni military officer in Taiz, told Arab News that a Houthi sniper targeted a civilian in the same area east of Taiz as the militia’s tanks and other heavy artillery pounded residential areas. “The Houthi heavy fire and sniper attacks have not stopped during the truce,” Al-Baher said, adding that the militia recently deployed more snipers and created new military posts. “People did not go to mosques during last Friday’s prayer out of fear of being hit by Houthi snipers,” Al-Baher said. The Houthis have been in control of Taiz’s outskirts for the past seven years, and have imposed a choking siege that has pushed thousands of people into famine. As part of the truce, discussions between the Yemeni government and the Houthis in Amman to open roads in Taiz have so far failed. A new round of discussions between both sides is taking place on Wednesday, a member of the Yemeni government delegation told Arab News. Al-Baher said people in Taiz are not supportive of renewing the truce, as it did not previously lead to the lifting of the siege. “We did not benefit from the truce. The Houthi shelling, mobilization of forces and military operations have not ceased during the truce,” he said. During the past seven days, people in Taiz have intensified protests and campaigns to draw attention to the impact of the siege and to pressure Yemeni negotiators in Amman to end it. The two-month truce, which came into effect on April 2, led to a big drop in fighting and fatalities, the resumption of commercial flights from Sanaa, and also allowed at least 12 fuel ships to enter Hodeidah. The latest Houthi mortar attack on Taiz came as the UN envoy for Yemen, Hans Grundberg, western diplomats and aid organizations stepped up pressure on the Yemeni government and the Houthis to renew the truce. On Tuesday, dozens of international organizations wrote a joint letter to the two sides, urging them to extend the truce in June to avoid more civilian losses. “We, the undersigned agencies, urge you to extend the truce agreement, build further on the gains you have made possible over the past two months, and work toward peace for the people of Yemen,” the organizations said in the letter. It said the truce has had positive humanitarian impacts, including a reduction in human casualties by 50 percent, addressing the shortage of fuel and allowing patients to receive medication outside the country. “The gift for a better life for the people of Yemen is in your hands. Don’t let June be the month where fighting resumes, public services fail, and more innocent lives are lost,” the letter said. A group of European ambassadors to Yemen landed in the port city of Aden, where they met with government officials to express their support for the Presidential Leadership Council and call for ending the siege of Taiz, Ahmed Awadh bin Mubarak, Yemen’s foreign minister, said. In Muscat Grundberg discussed with the Houthi chief negotiator Mohammed Abdul Salam and Omani officials about opening roads in Taiz, renewing the truce and working on achieving a peace settlement to end the war, Grundberg’s office said. Grundberg discussed the same issues with the Presidential Leadership Council head Rashad Al-Alimi and his government in Aden on Monday. He noted that renewing the truce was “critical to solidify benefits delivered so far and provide space to move toward a political settlement.”