DUBAI: Fresh from the Met Gala, Palestinian-Dutch model Bella Hadid has landed herself a new spot as a brand ambassador for Austrian jewelry label Swarovski. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 25-year-old catwalk star took to Instagram to share the news with her 51.7 million followers, writing: “Extremely honored and excited to be the new face of the iconic Swarovski.” Conceived by its creative director, Giovanna Engelbert, and photographed by fashion lensmen Mert Alas and Marcus Piggott, the colorful portraits capture the brand’s glitzy crystals in different styles.  A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) Hadid wore lucent ear cuffs, chunky necklaces, stud earrings and bold rings of octagonal crystals in yellow, pink, blue, green and white. “Bella Hadid sums up the individualistic and transformative attitude of a new global generation,” said Engelbert in a statement. “She is a multifaceted character who evades the boxes of rules and conformity. She goes from sporty to glamorous while remaining the same girl — the same Bella — with confidence and authority. “Today, crystals are a dynamic part of our everyday wardrobe: A way of accentuating your individual style in a way that can be as casual as it can be elaborate. Bella is the poster girl for this state of mind,” added Engelbert.  A post shared by SWAROVSKI (@swarovski) Meanwhile, Hadid said she was “very familiar” with the “timeless and iconic brand” before the partnership. “I love the new collections and what the brand has been doing, especially these past two years under the creative vision of Giovanna, and I really see Swarovski as the contemporary jewelry brand of the future,” she said. “Jewelry is about expression and celebrating individuality — Swarovski celebrates all people and the idea of modern glamour, and I love that.” The runway star recently made headlines with her head-turning look at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art. She opted for an edgy look — a black sculpted leather corset with articulated cups and metal accents from Burberry, a skirt with a high slit, patterned lace tights and a pearl-encrusted anklet. Her jewels, incidentally, were from Swarovski. Hadid last attended the Met Gala in 2019. The event, also known as the “Oscars of Fashion,” is one of the most highly anticipated industry events. This year’s co-chairs for the event included Blake Lively, Ryan Reynolds, Regina King and Lin-Manuel Miranda, who took over from last year’s co-chairs Timothée Chalamet, Billie Eilish, Naomi Osaka and Amanda Gorman.