MADINAH: The architecture of the Prophet’s Mosque, which spans more than 1,400 years, is a witness to the beauty and accuracy of Islamic architecture with its engineering designs, exquisite urban decorations, heritage items, and precious possessions that the mosque houses. The Agency for the Affairs of the Prophet's Mosque has organized an exhibition about the architecture of the Prophet’s Mosque, from the first building block until its opening by Prince Faisal bin Salman, governor of Madinah, to enrich the visitor experience. The exhibition is located south of the Prophet’s Mosque over an area of 2,200 square meters and reviews the history of the building’s architecture since its first construction by Prophet Muhammad and his companions until the expansions of the first, second, and third Saudi states. It focuses largely on the Saudi expansion from the era of the late King Abdulaziz and his sons after him, the late Saud, Faisal, Khalid, Fahd, and Abdullah, until the era of King Salman and what the Prophet's Mosque is witnessing currently in terms of the care and integrated services provided to visitors and worshippers. It includes modern technology and interactive screens featuring architecture and information related to the Prophet's Mosque. There are also films and a cinema hall. It has a special hall for valuables, including rare possessions of the Two Holy Mosques and ancient artifacts preserved through the ages. It aims to enrich the visitor experience by talking about the features of the Prophet’s Mosque, such as the pulpit, mihrab, domes and canopies, doors, adhan, muezzins, minarets, beacons, squares, and the services offered to people. The exhibition presents content in several languages through wall panels and interactive screens. All exhibition output is in Arabic and English, while the content has been translated into 12 languages. There is also audio translation, enabling visitors to access the exhibition's content through specially designated devices. 