As temperatures soar in the Kingdom, the region’s largest hypermarket chain, LuLu, has launched the “Kingdom of Mangoes 2022” festival to celebrate the much loved summer fruit, also known as the “king of fruits.” The festival, which runs until May 31, is being taken up a notch this year, with more than 80 different varieties of mangoes from all over the world, including 25 local varieties. The event features a grand display and several interactive activities that shoppers can be a part of. A diverse range of mangoes, including totapuri, neelam, gudadath, badami, sindura, thoomi, samak and many more, is available at great prices in the stores as well as online. Apart from India and Saudi Arabia, mangoes have been sourced from Kenya and Thailand. The festival was inaugurated on May 24 by Ram Prasad, charge d’affaires at the Indian Embassy in Riyadh, at the Riyadh Avenue Mall branch. Speaking at the launch, Prasad highlighted the growing trade ties between India and Saudi Arabia across all sectors in the backdrop of the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the bilateral relations between the two countries. He also highlighted the pride of place that the Indian mango enjoys in the country’s global export basket, as India accounts for 45 percent of global mango production. “LuLu has always been vibrant in its approach to showcase the freshest and most authentic range of mangoes and we’ve remained consistent with the quality we provide. Mangoes and summers are almost synonymous and this promotion will put forth an interesting showcase for the public. Everyone loves a good mango and we aim to raise the bar this year and put forward our best efforts to give the best shopping experience,” Shehim Mohammed, director of LuLu Hypermarkets Saudi Arabia, said. For the “Kingdom of Mangoes” festival, LuLu has put up sampling booths where shoppers can get a taste of the different delicacies — a unique selection of mango-based items. The festival also offers various processed and packaged mango products, ranging from jams to pickles, pulps, chutneys and cakes. LuLu Group has a reputation of being a one-stop shop for the multiethnic community of the region, with an international assortment of products catering to the tastes and preferences of every customer.