RIYADH: Prince Sultan Hall in the Al-Faisaliah Hotel in Riyadh is hosting the second edition of Riyadh International Luxury Week featuring some of the best-known names in the jewelry sector.
Krayem Al-Enazi, president of the National Committee for Precious Metals and Gemstones, officially inaugurated Riyadh International Luxury Week on Tuesday, May 24. Guest of honor Prince Bandar bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz bin Msaad bin Galaw Al-Saud also visited the event on its opening day.
Riyadh International Luxury Week, which will run until Saturday, May 28, is a curated event showcasing creations presented by international watch and jewelry brands and aiming to consolidate Saudi Arabia’s position as a key luxury market in the Middle East.
“We are proud to have inaugurated the second annual Riyadh International Luxury Week and welcome all our participants. It is a pleasure for us to bring together such a diverse range of brands, all under one roof in Saudi Arabia,” said Abdulrahman Al-Zeer, CEO of Riyadh International Luxury Week.
“The number of watch and jewelry collectors is growing here. And the appreciation for luxury goods is definitely on the rise. So, it is exciting to be providing the opportunity for brands to engage with enthusiasts on a more personal level,” Al-Zeer added.
Timepieces displayed include Christophe Claret’s limited-edition AlUla watch crafted especially for Saudi Arabia; Reservoir’s Kanister Silver, which pays tribute to the spirit of freedom and speed from the 1950s, and Timeless’ new neo-vintage watch, inspired by the design codes of yesterday and tomorrow.
Some of the jewelry brands to present their creations include Daniel K, which is featuring its Dani line of attainable jewelry for women who want a variety of designs with the versatility to transition from day to night, and Nsouli Jewelry, which combines exceptional gems with unique aesthetics to shape its timeless pieces. Luxury Italian brand FerrariFirenze, recognized for its meticulous craftsmanship, is also showcasing a collection of its new and best-selling creations.
The event saw a seminar on May 25 supported by Sotheby’s and the Saudi National Committee for Precious Metals and Gems. A second one, on watchmaking and collecting, is taking place on Thursday, May 26.
Misk Jewelry, which was established in Dubai in early 2020, also showcased its gems at the event, displaying “contemporary jewels reimagining traditional Emirati motifs…with each piece expertly handcrafted in the UAE,” according to founder and CEO Maher Khansaheb.
Khansaheb told Arab News: “After gaining exposure through our online store and excited clientele from our Gulf Cooperation Council market, we were eager to start venturing into markets outside the UAE, where we could provide our clients a physical presence. Saudi Arabia is one of our first international locations to do that.”
Khansaheb, who has 15 years of experience in jewelry designing, said that “clients from Saudi Arabia are particularly excited for the modern heritage-inspired designs of our collections, which give them a pop of their favorite colors through the gemstones that complement each piece.
“Saudi clients choose Misk for the quality of the items they would like to purchase and keep with them to treasure for years,” he added.
Abeer Al-Saeed, executive director of Dalal Jewelry, is also displaying her jewelry in a small booth at the exhibition.
Dalal Jewelry is a Saudi brand whose establishment seeks to tell stories about Saudi heritage and culture in a modern, inspiring way that aims to “raise the value of the Saudi brand in the field of jewelry,” according to Al-Saeed.