DUBAI: After being canceled in 2020 and held in September last year due to the pandemic, the Met Gala returned to its usual time slot this year, the first Monday in May. Held at New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art, A-list celebrities descended upon the red carpet in celebration of the museum’s new exhibition, “In America: An Anthology of Fashion,” showing off their best take on the event’s “Gilded Glamour” dress code. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The last time we saw Gigi Hadid on the iconic Met Gala steps, she was channeling a real-life Jessica Rabbit with her white Prada gown, freshly-dyed red hair and long black latex gloves. This year, for her seventh Met Gala appearance, the part-Palestinian model turned up in a red skintight catsuit that consisted of a leather corset paired with pointed-toe knee-high boots and a voluminous, billowing red coat. The 27-year-old, who made her Met Gala debut in 2015, was dressed by Versace for the occasion.   “For this, we wanted to incorporate how in the 1800s those shapes for women’s wear became a lot more exaggerated and started to push boundaries,” Hadid explained to Vogue of her look. “Of course, Versace is always celebrating that, so that’s what we went for tonight and it’s very heavy,” she added. As for her hair and makeup, the Dutch-Palestinian catwalk star opted for a raked-back, structural updo and bold red lipstick that matched her ensemble. Her younger sister Bella Hadid, 25, opted for an edgy look — a black sculpted leather corset with articulated cups and metal accents from Burberry, a skirt with a high slit, patterned lace tights and a pearl-encrusted anklet.   Bella last attended the Met Gala in 2019. Then, she executed the “Camp: Notes on Fashion” theme in a stunning black jewel-encrusted gown from Italian fashion house Moschino by Jeremy Scott. The Met Gala, also known as the “Oscars of Fashion,” is one of the most highly anticipated industry events. This year’s co-chairs for the event included Blake Lively, Ryan Reynolds, Regina King and Lin-Manuel Miranda who took over from last year’s co-chairs Timothée Chalamet, Billie Eilish, Naomi Osaka and Amanda Gorman.