AL-MUKALLA: A ship survived a hijack attempt off the coast of Yemen’s western Hodeidah province, the UK Maritime Trade Operations and local Yemeni officials said on Thursday. “UKMTO has received a report of an attack on a vessel in position 1419N 04242E (34 nautical miles South of Hodeidah). Investigations are ongoing,” the organization, which is part of the UK’s Royal Navy, said in a brief alert posted on its website. Yemeni officials said they believe the incident took place on Wednesday night in international waters about 15 miles west of Hodeidah’s Tarfah Peninsula, and that Yemeni fishermen saw security guards on the vessel exchange fire with the attackers. Citing the military presence of the Houthis off the coast of Hodeidah province and their long track record of attacking and hijacking ships in the Red Sea, Yemeni government officials blamed the Iran-backed militia for carrying out the latest attack. “Our information says three armed Houthi boats sailed from Al-Saleef (in Hodeidah) on Tuesday and were stationed in the sea. They attacked the ship,” an official from a government-controlled area on the Red Sea, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Arab News. The attack on the ship came days after the Houthis hijacked a vessel in the Red Sea delivering food to government troops in the city of Medi, in northern Hajjah province. The vessel, which had three fishermen and two soldiers on board, was sailing from government-controlled Khokha, south of Hodeidah, to the 5th Military Region in Medi on Sunday when it was besieged by armed Houthi boats. “The crew sent an alert that the Houthis were surrounding them and would arrest them, two hours after leaving Khokha,” a local officer, who asked not to be named, told Arab News on Thursday. In January, the Houthis hijacked a UAE-flagged ship with a crew of 11 off the country’s western coast, triggering local and international condemnation. The Coalition to Restore Legitimacy in Yemen said the ship was carrying medical equipment from a temporary Saudi hospital on Yemen’s remote island of Socotra.