DUBAI: Muslims around the world are celebrating Eid Al-Fitr with their friends and family today, and a host of public figures — including models, athletes, politicians and singers — have taken to their social media platforms to wish them a blessed Eid. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch model Imaan Hammam posted a close-up photo of a white flower on her Instagram Stories alongside the text: “May Allah fill your heart with joy and may you be blessed with kindness, patience, happiness and love. We did it!” Beauty mogul Huda Kattan posted a sweet snap with her husband Chris Gonzalez and captioned it “Eid Mubarak my loves!!! Wishing you all an amazing holiday!” Professional footballer Mesut Ozil also took to Instagram to wish the Muslim community a blessed Eid. “Happy Eid to all my Muslim brothers and sisters,” he wrote to his 24 million followers alongside an illustration that depicted him praying. A post shared by Mesut Özil (@m10_official) Meanwhile, American singer Lupe Fiasco kept it short and sweet, posting a simple “Eid Mubarak” on his Instagram Stories. Music producer DJ Khaled, who is of Palestinian descent, also took to the photo-sharing platform to wish his followers a happy Eid. He posted a photo of Jerusalem’s Al-Aqsa Mosque on his Instagram Stories alongside the text “Eid Mubarak” and the prayer emoji. A post shared by DJ KHALED (@djkhaled) Also taking to her Instagram Stories to share well wishes with the Muslim community was British supermodel Naomi Campbell, who posted an illustration depicting a mosque, lanterns and a crescent moon with the text: “Eid Mubarak. Ya Allah, grant us taqwa so that we may continue the good habits beyond the month of Ramadan.” Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau posted a thoughtful video on Twitter to wish Muslims an Eid Mubarak. “I’m sending my warmest wishes to all Muslims who are celebrating Eid al-Fitr and marking the end of Ramadan. After a month of prayer, fasting, and giving back, I hope you’re able to enjoy this time of celebration and community,” he wrote alongside the video.