RIYADH: A forum and exhibition on afforestation technologies will be held in Riyadh from May 29-31, Saudi Press Agency reported on Sunday. The International Exhibition and Forum on Afforestation Technologies will be held under the patronage of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman at the Riyadh International Convention and Exhibition Center. The event aims to provide a platform to encourage government agencies, semi-governmental organizations, companies, and non-profit organizations to join as active stakeholders to combat desertification and increase vegetation cover. Saudi Minister of Environment, Water and Agriculture Abdulrahman Al-Fadley thanked Prince Mohammed for sponsoring the event and said it is part of the Kingdom’s efforts to promote vegetation which is the main pillar of the National Environment Strategy. The strategy is a roadmap to realizing the aspirations of the Saudi Vision 2030 regarding the protection and development of the environment. He also highlighted the crown prince’s efforts to promote vegetation cover locally, regionally and internationally through ambitious initiatives including the Saudi Green Initiative, the Middle East Green Initiative, the Global Initiative on Reducing Land Degradation, and the International Coral Reef Initiative. The latter two initiatives were included in the declaration of environment ministers during Saudi Arabia’s presidency of the G20 in 2020. The CEO of the National Center for Vegetation Development and Combating Desertification, Dr. Khalid Al-Abdulqader, said the exhibition and forum will feature several comprehensive and integral aspects related to forestry and technologies to combat desertification. These include afforestation, combating desertification, irrigation techniques, water sources and technologies, nurseries, environmental waste recycling, soils, environmental monitoring and protection, development and investment of forests and parks, and plant pest control. Al-Abdulqader said the exhibition will welcome local and international companies to display the latest technology and innovation in combating desertification and mitigating its effects, and developing and protecting vegetation. It will also build bridges of communication between experts, major investors, company heads, decision makers, technical solution providers and academics, researchers specializing in the environment sector, and climate experts. He added that it will also identify leading models around the world to benefit from and attract global expertise appropriate to the Kingdom’s environment.