DUBAI: French-Tunisian actress, singer and model Sonia Ammar just graduated from Berklee College of Music. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Ammar took to her social media this week to post snaps and videos of her graduation moment, wearing her cap and gown and holding her diploma and a bouquet of red roses. The 23-year-old beauty launched her first EP, a four-track project entitled “EP 1,” in November 2019 with her debut single “Joyride.” For her musical debut and EP, Ammar teamed up with Jason Quenneville, better known as DaHeala, the producer behind The Weeknd’s hit “Starboy” and “Beauty Behind the Madness.”  A post shared by Sonia Ammar (@itsnotsonia) Memorably, Ammar also performed live at Coachella back in 2018, joining French DJ Petit Biscuit for a surprise set in which she sang their hit “Creation Comes Alive” to a packed crowd. The “Joyride” singer has been splitting her time between Paris and Los Angeles, having moved to the US a couple of years back to pursue her music career and attend college.  A post shared by Sonia Ammar (@itsnotsonia) Ammar, who is also Polish, was born to Tunisian director Tarak Ben Ammar and Polish actress Beata. She made her modeling and runway debut in 2017 for Miu Miu and quickly found herself in demand from some of the biggest labels around. Ammar made headway in the fashion world and fronted campaigns for the likes of Dolce & Gabbana and Chanel. Aside from her modeling career, Ammar has appeared in a couple of French movies including Guillaume Canet’s “Jappeloup” and “1789: Les Amants de la Bastille.” She also recently marked her first high-profile Hollywood gig with her role in “Scream,” released earlier this year, starring alongside Courtney Cox, Neve Campbell and David Arquette, who reprised their roles in the Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Tyler Gillett-directed horror flick. Her role in the movie made her the first Arab cast as a main character in the film franchise.  A post shared by Sonia Ammar (@itsnotsonia) The latest “Scream” film takes place 25 years after the events of the first film, with Woodsboro once again rocked by a series of murders committed by someone donning the Ghostface mask whose goal is to dig up secrets from the town’s deadly past. The 2022 film is the first installment of the franchise made without the involvement of director Wes Craven, who passed away in 2015.