DUBAI: French-Algerian actress Lyna Khoudri stars in the trailer for Chanel’s Cruise 2023 show taking place in Monaco on May 5. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Directed by Sofia and Roman Coppola, the “French Dispatch” star features alongside models Blesnya Minher, HyunJi Shin, Mariam de Vinzelle, and Vivienne Rohner. A post shared by CHANEL (@chanelofficial) The 52-second-long clip is made in the form of a collage and features archival images of Gabrielle “Coco” Chanel on the French Riviera, previous brand campaigns captured by the late Karl Lagerfeld in Monaco, Grace Kelly wearing a tweed suit, Monegasque royal Charlotte Casiraghi posing for fashion photography duo Inez and Vinoodh, and more. In the video, Khoudri can be seen donning pieces from the brand’s new collection and cruising on a boat with the other models. Born in Algeria, the actress is a Chanel house favorite. The award-winning 29-year-old – who won the Orizzonti Award for best actress at the 74th Venice International Film Festival and received a Cesar Award in 2020 – is a front-row fixture at the Parisian maison’s fashion shows and can almost always be seen championing Chanel creations at important red-carpet events. A post shared by lynakhoudri (@lynakhoudri) In 2006, Chanel showed its Metiers d’Art collection at the Monte-Carlo Opera House in the French municipality. Monaco is an integral part of the maison’s history as a destination dear to Chanel, who had her villa built just a few kilometers from there, and Lagerfeld who made it his summer place of residence. In a statement, the fashion house said: “By choosing to present the Cruise 2023 fashion show in Monaco, Virginie Viard is sealing and extending Chanel’s ties with the principality. “This relationship is embodied in particular by Charlotte Casiraghi, ambassador and spokesperson for the house since 2021, president and founder of the Monaco Philosophical Meetings, and godmother of the Jumping International de Monaco.” Viard – who took over the reins after German couturier Lagerfeld passed away in 2019 – showcased Chanel’s last Cruise collection in Dubai in November. Supermodels and A-listers flocked to the UAE to view the maison’s resort 2022 offering, which was unveiled at the Dubai Creek. French-Algerian actress Sofia Boutella, Spanish star Penelope Cruz, Chanel ambassador Caroline de Maigret, and Egyptian actress Tara Emad were all sat on the front row.