CIARO: Egypt has launched its billion-dollar National Climate Change Strategy 2050 to support a stronger, greener Egyptian economy. The strategy includes adaptation and mitigation programs in all sectors until 2050, the most important of which are: Energy, transportation, agriculture and water resources. The total cost of mitigation programs is estimated at about $211 billion, while adaptation programs will cost $113 billion. The Egyptian government has launched the plans to aid economic growth while reducing emissions in several sectors, as well as improving adaptation capabilities as the country grapples with the effects of climate change to protect the economy and climate governance. The national strategy is also designed to improve climate finance and infrastructure, enhance research in green technology and raise awareness to confront climate change. The National Climate Change Strategy has been launched ahead of Egypt hosting the 27th session of the Conference of the States Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) in Sharm El Sheikh. Yasmine Fouad, minister of environment, stressed the importance of the role of development partners in supporting the implementation of the strategy’s projects. Fouad said that the strategy is a comprehensive and long-term plan that reflects Egypt’s vision and goals in mitigation, adaptation, finance, climate governance, technology and scientific research. She added that it takes into account the dimensions of sustainable development and social aspects of the effects of climate change. Fouad said that the National Climate Change Strategy 2050 and the National Contributions Strategy have been designed within wider plans for Egypt’s path to green transformation. Cairo is planning sweeping changes to the energy sector with a renewed focus on renewable energy, which includes a $10 billion project to produce 10 GW of renewable energy through upgrading thermal power plants. The government will also lead changes in the transport, petroleum and agricultural sectors with support from the private sector. The minister emphasized the involvement of the private sector in agricultural projects, establishing early warning systems for agricultural crops.