DUBAI: Messages of condolence poured in this weekend from Arab celebrities following news of the death of Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al-Nahyan, the president of the UAE. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Hussain Al-Jassmi pic.twitter.com/QgflVXt89D — Aljassmi حسين الجسمي (@7sainaljassmi) May 13, 2022   The Emirati singer shared a lengthy message on his social media in honor of Sheikh Khalifa, whom he referred to as his “father and leader.” Ahlam Al-Shamsi A post shared by Ahlam Alshamsi (@ahlamalshamsi)   The UAE music sensation paid tribute to the late president by sharing videos, pictures and Stories of him on Instagram. “Today, the UAE is sad and orphaned,” she wrote. Tamer Hosny خالص التعازي لدولة الإمارات الشقيقه وشعبها الحبيب و الوطن العربي فى وفاة المغفور له بإذن الله سمو الشيخ خليفة بن زايد ، نسألكم الفاتحه و الدعاء له بالرحمه و الصبر و السلوان لأسرته الكريمه — Tamer Hosny (@tamerhosny) May 13, 2022   The Egyptian actor and pop singer took to social media to send his condolences to the people of the UAE and to the royal family. Najwa Karam بتجي على هالدّني وجوه طيّبة، قادة بمعنى الكلمة، صاحبة أيادي بيضاء، وأفكار خيّرة، ومن بعدها بتنتقل لرحمة ربّنا..
الله يرحم روح رئيس دولة الإمارات #الشيخ_خليفة_بن_زايد_آل_نهيان
تعازينا الحارّة من كل لبنان إلى دولة الإمارات الحبيبة قيادةً وشعباً pic.twitter.com/dUmsxJivGP — Najwa Karam (@najwakaram) May 13, 2022   The Lebanese singer’s message referred to the late president as “a leader in the true sense with compassionate hands and good ideas.” Mona Zaki إنا لله وإنا إليه راجعون..
خالص التعازي لأشقائنا بدولة الإمارات العربية المتحدة في وفاة صاحب السمو الشيخ خليفة بن زايد آل نهيان رئيس الدولة.
اللهم تغمده بوافر رحمته ويسكنه فسيح جناته ويلهم ذويه الصبر والسلوان. pic.twitter.com/mX1HxqFusH — Mona Zaki (@monazaki) May 13, 2022   The Egyptian actress took to Instagram to offer her condolences to the country’s people. She also shared President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi’s message, in which he said that he “mourns one of the most precious men and one of the greatest leaders.” Elissa كل التعازي لدولة الإمارات وشعبها الحبيب بوفاة رئيس الدولة الشيخ خليفة بن زايد آل نهيان. رجل رؤيوي وصاحب مسيرة حوار وانفتاح وتقدم. سيذكره التاريخ صاحب الأيادي البيض والتاريخ المضيء pic.twitter.com/TRqz6x6SMS — Elissa (@elissakh) May 13, 2022   “A visionary man…History will remember him, the man with compassionate hands and a bright history,” wrote the Lebanese singer on Twitter.