RIYADH: The first day of the inaugural Future Aviation Forum has started in Saudi Arabia, with more than 2,000 attendees expected. The two-day event, being held in Riyadh, will see leaders from the public and business sectors mix with international CEOs and regulators as the aviation industry aims to resolve post-pandemic issues and shape future international air travel. The forum hosted by the General Authority of Civil Aviation, also known as GACA, will feature more than 120 speakers. UPDATES Future Fuel: Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said that a low-carbon fuel for aviation could emerge as the transitionary fuel for the future. The minister noted that achieving sustainability cannot be done by just relying on biofuels. Instead, he made it clear that all options including hydrogen should be considered to ensure a better low-carbon future.  #Saudi Energy Minister says the gap between #crude oil prices and prices for jet #fuel, #diesel and #gasoline is around 60% in some cases because of the lack of refining capacity. #OOTT #FutureAviationForum. @FAF_Saudi pic.twitter.com/bBWmiP5LFc — Arab News | Business (@ArabNewsBiz) May 9, 2022 Special Riyadh Zone: In a bid to attract more multinational companies from the logistics and cargo sector, Saudi Arabia's General Authority of Civil Aviation has started working on a special economic zone in Riyadh. GACA president Abdulaziz bin Abdullah Al-Duailej revealed this new special zone will have economic and legislative packages capable of driving up more multinational entities in the future. New national airline: Saudi Arabia is aiming to obtain an investment of $100 billion in the aviation sector by the end of this decade, Saudi Minister of Transport Saleh Al-Jasser told the inaugural ceremony of the forum. He also added that the Saudi Arabian government has ambitious plans to launch a new national carrier which could emerge as one of the best in the world in the coming years.   New travel rules: In a bid to smooth the process of international air travel, Saudi Arabia has announced a new Global Air Travel policy. The new framework is expected to make international journeys simpler, by avoiding the confusion over travel requirements currently discouraging millions of people from booking flights.    The decline in global passenger travel is the highest in 20 years. Confusion over travel requirements has discouraged millions of people from booking flights. Experts at the #FutureAviationForum will discuss how to make travel a simpler process with future health crises in mind. pic.twitter.com/GtVOPQuMmd — Future Aviation Forum | مؤتمر مستقبل الطيران (@FAF_Saudi) May 8, 2022 