BANGKOK: The Aramco Team Series changed the landscape of women’s golf when it debuted on the Ladies European Tour last year, and a new season tees off on Thursday in Bangkok at the Thai Country Club. Event organizer, Golf Saudi, is confident the expansion into Asia of the Aramco Team Series presented by the Public Investment Fund will be another vital step in the organiszation’s global growth and the development of the women’s game. Majed Al-Sorour, deputy chairman and chief executive officer of Golf Saudi and the Saudi Golf Federation, said: “The Asian expansion feels like another game-changer for us. “It’s the first time Golf Saudi and our partners have hosted an event in Asia – one of the biggest growth-market opportunities in golf. It’s a chance to create a new era for women’s golf and our growing partnership with the LET and Aramco. “We have achieved incredible success to this point with the previous events, however our ambitions – in line with those of Vision 2030 – remain as bold as ever.” In February last year, the Public Investment Fund Saudi International powered by SoftBank Investment Advisers made its debut on the Asian Tour, presenting its strongest-ever field with the biggest names in world golf, alongside the top 30 ranked players of Asian golf, in a new era for the event. The 10-year sanction of the Saudi International under the Asian Tour has helped generate new opportunities for Asian players around the globe, driven interest among Saudi residents, and has grown the sport’s popularity throughout the country. Taking the Aramco Team Series into a new region with a huge interest in golf is another important milestone. “We’re thrilled to be heading into a new market like Thailand and I have no doubt that the Aramco Team Series will push the boundaries and elevate women’s golf,” Al-Sorour added. “This year’s edition of the Aramco Team Series sees its total prize increase to $5 million. It will give the players more opportunities to visit new countries and to test their game on different courses while competing with the world’s best. The series will also provide more opportunities for the next generation to experience LET members, and of course, some of the world’s biggest names.” Title partner Aramco has played a key role in supporting LET events in recent years, including the Aramco Team Series expansion to Asia for the first time. Talal Al-Marri, general manager of public affairs at Aramco, said: “The importance of the expansion to the Asian market reflects Aramco’s commitment to the future of golf, and specifically, women’s golf. “Sport has the power to enrich and enhance lives and fuel the dreams of the Kingdom’s youth – our most important resource. There’s a notable jump in the number of young players taking up the sport in the continent, and several Asian talents are reaching new heights in the global golf scene while competing at the highest level, especially in ladies golf.” Aramco will continue to support women’s golf in every market on the series through youth player initiatives and long-lasting legacy opportunities that will open the game for more participation. “We’ve got a great platform and the ability to change lives for the better through golf and inspire more women and girls through the sport – both on and off the course. Our commitment reflects Aramco’s long-term objectives in female empowerment,” Al-Marri added. The Aramco Team Series in Bangkok starts its 2022 tournament schedule on May 12 to 14 at the Thai Country Club. Other 2022 ATS venues include London, at the Centurion Club, from June 16 to 18; Sotogrande, in Spain, at La Reserva Club between Aug. 18 and 20; New York (venue to be announced) from Oct. 13 to 15; and concluding again at Jeddah’s Royal Greens Golf and Country Club, on Nov. 9 to 11. A group of world-class golfers, led by Thai stars Patty Tavatanakit and sisters Ariya and Moriya Jutanugarn, will join a host of international stars as the series gets underway in Bangkok.