NEWCASTLE: Sean Longstaff said the Newcastle United project was too good to miss out on after signing a new three-year deal at his boyhood club.
The Geordie midfielder, 24, today confirmed he will remain at United, ending months of speculation about his future.
And having committed himself to the club until the summer of 2025, Longstaff said that he is excited to see what Newcastle can achieve with everyone — supporters, management, owners and players — all pulling in the same direction.
“I’m over the moon. To sign for three more years at your hometown club, especially with the way the club’s going and what the owners are putting in place, is really special for me and my family, and a day I’ll never forget,” he said.
“You need to be in the right place to learn and keep improving, and since the first day the new manager (Eddie Howe) has come in, I’ve loved every second of working with him.
“Being able to work with him every day, and his staff, they always want to help you get better and I think that’s the biggest thing for me. I speak to the manager loads, and he’s assured me that he wants to keep helping me improve and the goals he thinks I can achieve.
“They align with what I think I can achieve as well. It’s really special. Everyone is moving in the same direction and I’m looking forward to being a part of it.”
Longstaff’s deal comes off the back of contract extensions for other key first-team players, with Paul Dummett and Fabian Schar signing new terms in the past few weeks.
This current deal will bring Longstaff’s earnings into line with his fellow first-team players, something that long frustrated the player and his representatives, after not signing a new contract since his days in the Newcastle youth team.
“It’s great news that Sean has committed his future to the club,” said head coach Howe.
“He is a great professional and an outstanding player who is incredibly passionate about playing for Newcastle United.
“His attitude and commitment since I arrived have been first class on and off the pitch, and he played a big part in us climbing the table and finishing the season as strongly as we did.
“At 24, he has his best years ahead of him and I’m excited to see his development continuing.”