DUBAI: The fifth edition of the Culture Summit by the Department of Culture and Tourism in Abu Dhabi is returning this year under the theme “A Living Culture” from May 16-18. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Unlike last year’s virtual forum, the summit this year is an in-person event open to the public by invitation only in Manarat Al-Saadiyat. It brings together pioneers of art, media, technology and culture from more than 90 countries to generate new strategies, and identify ways in which culture can transform societies, as well as communities. This year, the three-day event will examine modern issues causing changes in world culture and creative industries, including the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Chairman of the Department of Culture and Tourism Abu Dhabi HE Mohamed Khalifa Al-Mubarak said in a statement: “Last year global cultural leaders recognized that the post-pandemic crisis in culture was profound and unprecedented. As the recovery process now gains momentum, we are taking practical steps to shape and strengthen the culture sector regionally and globally through partnership, debate and collaboration.” The summit features a busy program that includes keynote speeches, presentations, conversations and panel discussions. Those attending the event include intellectuals, artists, creatives and educators. Each day of the summit will focus on a different subject. “Living Cultural Ecosystems” will examine the need for adaptive and responsive cultural systems, and will include panels with former presidents Joyce Banda of Malawi and Dalia Grybauskaite of Lithuania. “Living in Culture” will look at the surge in digital content creation. Talks with artists Rola Khayyat from Lebanon and Aslo Cavusoglu from Turkey will also take place. Finally, “Culture, Diversity, Power” will explore how the culture and creative industries are crucial to a diverse global environment. The 2022 Culture Summit is working with a multitude of global partners that will bring their expertise to the event. Partners include UNESCO, Economist Impact, Google, the Design Museum London and The Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. Other participating partners include Image Nation Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi Film Commission, Sandstorm Comics, Cultural Foundation, Louvre Abu Dhabi, Berklee Abu Dhabi, and The Recording Academy and the Culture Resource. To attend the invitation-only event, register your interest on the official website culturesummitabudhabi.com.