CAIRO: Egypt supports Morocco’s territorial integrity and is committed to finding an international solution to the Western Sahara issue, Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry has said. In a joint statement with his Moroccan counterpart Nasser Bourita after a session of talks in Rabat, Shoukry said that Egypt’s position was “in support of the territorial integrity of the Kingdom of Morocco and its commitment to the international solution to the Sahara issue, and its support for what came in Security Council resolutions, most recently Resolution No. 2602.” He added that Egypt “welcomed the Moroccan efforts, characterized with seriousness and credibility, that are aiming to move forward toward a political settlement in the Sahara issue.” The two ministers urged “the necessity of overcoming inter-Arab differences in order to preserve the unity of the Arab ranks in light of the unprecedented challenges the region is witnessing,” stressing their rejection of all forms of foreign interference in the affairs of Arab countries. They noted the importance of “achieving effective international cooperation to confront all cross-border security threats, including terrorism, extremism and cybercrimes, as well as continuing coordination and cooperation within the Mediterranean region in a way that enhances efforts to achieve sustainable development, security and stability, combat terrorism and comprehensively address the issue of migration.” Bourita relayed “Morocco’s full support for Egyptian water security as an integral part of Arab water security” and the need to “find unilateral policies in connection with international rivers.” He also stressed “the dedication to commitments under international law, including the Declaration of Principles Agreement signed in 2015, which would not take any unilateral measures regarding the filling and operation of the Renaissance Dam, and the need for the parties to cooperate in good faith to reach a binding legal agreement on the rules of filling without delay, and operation in line with the presidential statement issued by the Security Council in September 2021.” The two sides reiterated their support for the establishment of an independent state of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital, in accordance with international resolutions. The Egyptian foreign minister praised the role of the Al-Quds Committee headed by King Mohammed VI in supporting Jerusalemites and preserving the Arab and Islamic character of Jerusalem, its legal status, its civilizational status and its symbolism as a land for coexistence between three religions. The Moroccan foreign minister praised the tangible support provided by Egypt to the Palestinian people. The two ministers also discussed the latest developments in the Libyan crisis, where they renewed their support for dialogue without external interference. The Moroccan minister praised Egypt’s hosting of the Libyan Constitutional Committee. The two sides stressed the need for all foreign forces, mercenaries and foreign fighters to leave Libya within a specific time frame as part of Security Council resolutions and the efforts of talks in Paris and Berlin. They called for further support of the 5+5 Committee and stressed the need for reconciliation.