DUBAI: Part-Saudi model Shanina Shaik has announced she is expecting her first child. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The catwalk star took to Instagram on Mother’s Day to share the happy news with her 2.8 million followers, posting three images of her growing belly with an extended caption in the form of a letter. “To the new love of my life, thank you for choosing me to be your Mum. I have always wanted you for as long as I can remember, and at times my patience was tested. The timing had to be right, and I can say with confidence that I am ready to be your guide, your protector and your best friend,” she said.  A post shared by SHANINA SHAIK (@shaninamshaik) The 31-year-old model, who is of Saudi, Pakistani, Lithuanian and Australian descent, is expecting the baby with her boyfriend Matthew Adesuyan, the head of a record label in Los Angeles. “As each month goes by during this precious journey of pregnancy, I am learning what the role of being a mother entails. I worry a lot, especially about your wellbeing and development. It’s a feeling that I’ve never experienced before, not even about myself. I would do anything for you, be anything for you and sacrifice anything for you,” she continued. She praised her own mother mentioning that she was raised by an “amazing woman” who taught her a lot about motherhood. “She has set the bar high and I don’t want to disappoint you. I want to raise you as she raised me.”  A post shared by SHANINA SHAIK (@shaninamshaik) The mom-to-be ended the lengthy caption saying: “Sharing you with the world today is the most precious gift I could possibly receive on Mother’s Day. Mummy and Daddy can’t wait to meet you!” Many celebrities also celebrated Mother’s Day by showing gratitude to their moms on social media. The part-Palestinian Hadid sisters, Gigi and Bella Hadid, shared heartwarming snaps of their mother Yolanda Hadid, when they were children. Part-Middle Eastern actress Yara Shahidi and Lebanese-Australian influencer and humanitarian Jessica Kahawaty shared multiple snaps of their mothers to celebrate their special day.