DUBAI: Arab designers are no strangers to prestigious red-carpet events around the world. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle This week, American singer and dancer Ashley Roberts sported a jaw-dropping creation by Lebanese designer Rami Kadi for the British Academy of Film and Television Arts awards ceremony. The media personality and former Pussycat Doll member stunned in a metallic silver gown embellished with colorful feathers on the train, a high slit and an asymmetrical cut.  A post shared by Rami Kadi (@ramikadi) She paired the gown with strappy silver sandals, an updo and shiny earrings. The dress is part of Kadi’s Spring 2022 “Lucid Algorithms” collection that launched earlier this year. This collection came in collaboration with the Lebanese designer’s first-ever non-fungible token collection of the same name. The “Lucid Algorithms” collection breaks down barriers between the physical and virtual realms and restructures stigmas around computers and designers. The collection was a human-computer collaboration, in which Kadi created elements that were fed into an algorithm. The result was an assortment of visuals, which were then used to design and create 40 dresses that make up the whole couture collection.  A post shared by ZUHAIR MURAD (@zuhairmuradofficial) This collection was an ode to Kadi’s future endeavors, which center around his beliefs and the metaverse. He was the first Arab designer to delve into the metaverse and the realm of NFTs. Roberts was not the only celebrity donning an Arab designer. Actress Michelle Keegan shined on the red carpet wearing an off-the-shoulder light pink gown by renowned Lebanese designer Zuhair Murad. The British star wore a pleated iridescent pink dress that featured a high slit, a one-sided shoulder cape and a cinched waist. Keegan paired the beautiful gown with silver shoes and glistening jewelry. The dress is part of Murad’s Spring Summer 2022 collection, which was themed around pirates of the high seas, though the collection took a different take on it. Rather than the rough and rugged looks that usually come to mind when envisioning a pirate, Murad took an ethereal and gilded approach. The collection is filled with shimmering features, embellished bodices, nautical details and flamboyant fabrics creating feminine silhouettes.