DUBAI: OSN has announced new additions to its board of directors. OSN shareholders KIPCO and Mawarid have voted to add Sheikha Al-Zain Sabah Al-Naser Al-Sabah, chairwoman and CEO of National Creative Industries Group, and Elie Habib, co-founder of Anghami, to the board of directors, which is led by Chairwoman Sheikha Dana Nasser Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah. The announcement follows new appointments at the company such as that of Joe Kawkabani as CEO of OSN. “On behalf of the entire board, I would like to congratulate and welcome both of these distinguished leaders,” said Sheikha Dana Al-Sabah. She added: “Their deep experience and insights in media content and technology will be instrumental in ensuring OSN’s continued leadership within the entertainment and streaming technology sector. They bring a wealth of experience that will help OSN continue to be the region’s leading home of premium entertainment.” Sheikha Al-Zain Al-Sabah will serve as vice-chairwoman of OSN. She brings with her vast expertise in expanding the creative industry within the Middle East and North Africa region. She served as undersecretary of state at the Ministry for Youth Affairs in Kuwait. Under her leadership, Kuwait was named the Arab Capital of Youth in 2017, and the first national youth policy was drafted. She also served as the chairwoman and managing director of Eagle Vision Media Group, a multimedia production facility in Kuwait. As co-founder of Anghami, Habib brings with him immense technological knowledge, especially within the streaming industry. Anghami has over 75 million users and 72 million licensed Arabic and English tracks and is integrated with 45 mobile operators. Its success is a testament to Habib’s expertise in tech and streaming. Kawkabani, CEO of OSN, said: “We look forward to the contribution and impact that Sheikha Al-Zain and Elie Habib will make to the business as they join our board. Both these key additions to our board add another level of deep industry expertise, diversity, and strategic direction as we navigate through new areas of this sector.” OSN’s board also includes Kawkabani and Michael Johnson from Mawarid Holding Co.