JEDDAH: Jeddah Yacht Club zone was launched on Sunday as part of Jeddah Season 2022. Located at the marina area of Jeddah Waterfront, which is the Kingdom’s first tourist marina, the opening day began with a parade of live theatrical performances featuring more than 100 costumed entertainers. The zone entrance offers people a breathtaking view of the sea and of a fleet of luxurious yachts from around the world.   Visitors can enjoy shopping from well-known high-end brands, enjoy delicacies at the finest restaurants and cafes, and take part in family-friendly water sports. Jamal Al-Ghamdi, operation manager at Jeddah Yacht Club Marina, told Arab News: “Since the yacht club is a direct international port, we have received quite a good number of participating boats from around the globe. During Jeddah Season, we are focusing on providing fun and entertaining water activities, including sailboat activities, rather than only yacht shows. There will be more than 12 different water (activities) such as water theater, jet boats, sailing lessons, experience diving with sharks, dolphins, and more.” • The zone entrance offers people a breathtaking view of the sea and of a fleet of luxurious yachts from around the world. • Visitors can enjoy shopping from well-known high-end brands, enjoy delicacies at the finest restaurants and cafes, and take part in family-friendly water sports. Jeddah Yacht Club was considered Saudi Arabia’s first sailing school, said Ahmad Bajuaid, a senior coordinator from the marina.   “No one is familiar with the idea of sailing here since it is not a common sport among the Saudi community, although we have a wonderful sea,” he told Arab News. “We have established a sailing academy where we will be offering sailing training sessions as we have a group of sailing boats from Holland. Many of the club’s foreign visitors have told me that they have heard a lot about our beautiful famous Corniche in Jeddah, and now they are more than pleased to enjoy visiting us.” The club can accommodate more than 100 yachts 135 meters in length and 8 meters in depth. There is also an exclusive beach for its members. The opening day closed with the Jeddah skies lighting up with a fireworks display.   Saudi social media influencer Faisal Al-Ghazzawi and others were at the event. "Such an event is a quantum leap for Jeddah Corniche. I believe more wonderful activities are coming. Jeddah Season is a way to show the world how fantastic Jeddah city is,” said Al-Ghazzawi. Jeddah Season is part of the Saudi Seasons initiative, which was launched to enrich the lives of people in the Kingdom and introduce the country as an important world tourist destination.   The initiative is aimed at highlighting culture, entertainment, and sports in the Kingdom. Activities at the Jeddah Yacht Club zone run from May 8 until June 19 from 4. p.m until 3. a.m. Jeddah Season's nine zones will hold events related to their historical and cultural aspect of their location and function. Tickets are available at https://jeddahseason.sa/index.html. 