JEDDAH: More than 150 exhibitors from around the world will take part in this year’s Bisat Al-Reeh exhibition, which opens on Tuesday at the Jeddah Superdome. The 21st annual celebration of creativity and design organized by the National Home Health Care Foundation is being staged as part of the 2022 Jeddah Season of activities. Held under the patronage of Princess Adelah bint Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz, Bisat Al-Reeh aims to promote creativity in the world of fashion, jewelry and furniture, as well as nurturing young talent. The five-day event is a showcase for people of all ages and backgrounds to display their handicrafts and designs to a wide audience. Jeddah Season took to Twitter on Saturday to promote the event: “For all lovers of style and distinctive designs #Basat Al-Reeh is back with many surprises that will make you happy in the #Jeddah_Superdome, visit us and enjoy watching the most amazing jewelry designs from the most famous brands.” One of the highlights of this year’s exhibition is a collaborative and multi-faceted sculpture created by a group of male and female Saudi artists. The piece, titled “Ana Juz2 (Ana Juz’a)” — which translates as “I am a part of” — allows each of the artists to present their own artistic view through a three-dimensional model, with each element displayed at a different point within the exhibition venue. The aim of the work is to encourage people to come together within their communities and promote greater social responsibility. At the end of the show, the different elements will be sold off, with the proceeds going to support the work of the NHHCF. Princess Adelah, who is chairperson of the foundation’s board of trustees, said: “The foundation works for noble goals, as today it serves 10 different regions of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. “Its goals fall within providing home health care in addition to providing patients’ psychological and social needs and supporting them with consumable medical equipment and supplies, as well as enhancing the functional capabilities of the patients and supporting them till achieving their own independence.” This year’s Bisat Al-Reeh is open to women only from Tuesday to Friday, with families welcome on Saturday. The opening hours are 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m. each day.