JEDDAH: Abdul Latif Jameel Motors’ celebrated its 25 anniversary of supporting motorsports in Saudi Arabia on Thursday night with an event held at the Jeddah Corniche Circuit. Held under the patronage of Prince Khalid bin Sultan Al-Abdullah Al-Faisal, chairman of the Saudi Arabian Automobile and Motorcycle Federation (SAMF), the ceremony hosted the Kingdom’s pioneering motorsport figures and other distinguished guests who joined in the celebration of the country’s achievements in the racing industry. In his opening speech, Prince Khalid said: “Welcoming the second season of the Saudi Toyota Championship builds on a successful past and opens new possibilities for motorsports in the country, creating a legacy far beyond racing. In line with Vision 2030, we work towards developing the talented youths as more avenues are available to hone their skills to become part of the growing motorsports industry.” Hassan Jameel, chairman of the board of managers of Abdul Latif Jameel Motors, assured attendees that the company will continue to follow the directive of SAMF to encourage the talents of the nation’s youth, while promoting and facilitating accessible motorsports. He added that the company is fully committed to supporting the industry and encouraging all members of society to take part in motorsports. He said: “Under the leadership of King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Abdul Latif Jameel Motors continues to follow their directives to encourage and nurture young talents, while promoting and facilitating access to motorsports. In this regard, the company affirms its full commitment to supporting the sector, and enables all members of society to participate and play a role in the advancement of motorsports.” The event also held a discussion on the sidelines of the celebrations. Moderated by renowned motorsport journalist and historian Firas Nimri, the panel heard from the president of SAM, Abdullah Bakhashab; Saudi female rally driver, Dania Akeel; board member at SAMF and Saudi rally champion, Yazeed Al-Rajhi and SAMF CEO Sattam Alhozam. Since 1997, Abdul Latif Jameel Motors has been committed to creating opportunities and bolstering Saudi Arabia’s motorsports scene. From supporting Bakhashab in the 1997 Middle East Rally Championship, to initiating the first race in the country in 2001 — the Toyota Race of Champions — it has played a significant role in promoting the different categories of motorsports in the Kingdom. The company has also supported many regional firsts, including the launch of Rally Jameel this year, the debut off-road navigation rally for women drivers in the Arab world. Abdul Latif Jameel Motors had previously partnered with Al-Rajhi, who recently won the 2021 FIA World Cup Cross Country Baja. Most recently, it also partnered with Akeel, who won the World Cup for the T3 Desert Baja Rally after finishing fourth in Baja Italy, the eighth round of the championship. Akeel made history as the first Arab woman to win the title, highlighting the increased involvement of Saudi women in motorsports. For the second successive season, Abdul Latif Jameel Motors is the main partner of the Saudi Toyota Championship, a grassroots program for aspiring local drivers who have a passion for motorsports. The Saudi Toyota Championship supports six different events throughout the year: